  - [1. Introduction](#introduction)
      - [Group Organization](#group-organization)
      - [The World](#the-world)
      - [The Empire](#the-empire)
      - [The Blended Realm](#the-blended-realm)
  - [2. Your Island](#your-island)
      - [Creation of the Island](#creation-of-the-island)
          - [Island Statistics](#island-statistics)
          - [Island Governance](#island-governance)
  - [3. Player Characters](#player-characters)
      - [Traits](#traits)
      - [Defining Yourself In Terms Of Your
        Island](#defining-yourself-in-terms-of-your-island)
      - [The Empire Fails To Define
        You](#the-empire-fails-to-define-you)
      - [Stats](#stats)
          - [Where are Strength, Intelligence,
            etc?](#where-are-strength-intelligence-etc)
      - [Skills](#skills)
      - [Personal Items](#personal-items)
      - [Power Levels](#power-levels)
  - [4. Character Skills](#character-skills)
      - [Skill Categories and Skill
        Descriptions](#skill-categories-and-skill-descriptions)
      - [Armor Training Group](#armor-training-group)
          - [Unarmored](#unarmored)
          - [Shields](#shields)
          - [Light Armor](#light-armor)
          - [Heavy Armor](#heavy-armor)
          - [Magic Armor](#magic-armor)
      - [Weapon Training Group](#weapon-training-group)
          - [Barehanded](#barehanded)
          - [One-Handed Melee Weapons](#one-handed-melee-weapons)
          - [Two-Handed Melee Weapons](#two-handed-melee-weapons)
          - [One-Handed Reach Weapons](#one-handed-reach-weapons)
          - [Two-Handed Reach Weapons](#two-handed-reach-weapons)
          - [One-Handed Ranged Weapons](#one-handed-ranged-weapons)
          - [Two-Handed Ranged Weapons](#two-handed-ranged-weapons)
          - [One-Handed Magical Weapons](#one-handed-magical-weapons)
          - [Two-Handed Magical Weapons](#two-handed-magical-weapons)
      - [Magical Techniques Group](#magical-techniques-group)
          - [Alchemy Techs](#alchemy-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5)
              - [Rating 10](#rating-10)
              - [Rating 15](#rating-15)
              - [Rating 20](#rating-20)
              - [Rating 25](#rating-25)
              - [Rating 35](#rating-35)
          - [Blended Mind Techs](#blended-mind-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-1)
          - [Elemental Energy Techs](#elemental-energy-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-2)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-1)
              - [Rating 10](#rating-10-1)
              - [Rating 15](#rating-15-1)
              - [Rating 20](#rating-20-1)
              - [Rating 25](#rating-25-1)
              - [Rating 30](#rating-30)
              - [Rating 35](#rating-35-1)
          - [Hexenkraft Techs](#hexenkraft-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-3)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-2)
              - [Rating 10](#rating-10-2)
              - [Rating 15](#rating-15-2)
              - [Rating 20](#rating-20-2)
          - [Martial Techs](#martial-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-4)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-3)
              - [Rating 10](#rating-10-3)
              - [Rating 15](#rating-15-3)
              - [Rating 20](#rating-20-3)
          - [Musical Techs](#musical-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-5)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-4)
          - [Summoning Techs](#summoning-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-6)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-5)
          - [Weapon Melee Techs](#weapon-melee-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-7)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-6)
              - [Rating 10](#rating-10-4)
              - [Rating 15](#rating-15-4)
              - [Rating 20](#rating-20-4)
          - [Weapon Ranged Techs](#weapon-ranged-techs)
              - [Rating 1](#rating-1-8)
              - [Rating 5](#rating-5-7)
              - [Rating 10](#rating-10-5)
              - [Rating 15](#rating-15-5)
      - [Linear Tactics Group](#linear-tactics-group)
          - [Rampart Aura](#rampart-aura)
          - [Shield Wall](#shield-wall)
          - [Siegebreaker](#siegebreaker)
          - [Spear Wall](#spear-wall)
      - [Zone Tactics Group](#zone-tactics-group)
          - [Animal Speaker Aura](#animal-speaker-aura)
          - [Barrier Aura](#barrier-aura)
          - [Regeneration Aura](#regeneration-aura)
          - [Sanctuary Aura](#sanctuary-aura)
          - [Terror Aura](#terror-aura)
  - [5. Dramatic Scenes](#dramatic-scenes)
      - [Dramatic Chances](#dramatic-chances)
          - [Skills Giving Extra Chances](#skills-giving-extra-chances)
          - [Increased Difficulty](#increased-difficulty)
  - [6. Island Rules](#island-rules)
      - [Island Stats](#island-stats)
          - [Inhabitants](#inhabitants)
          - [Systems](#systems)
          - [Special Constructs](#special-constructs)
              - [Example Special
                Constructs](#example-special-constructs)
      - [Strategic Turns](#strategic-turns)
          - [Calculation Phase](#calculation-phase)
              - [1. Island Health](#island-health)
              - [2. Water System](#water-system)
              - [3. Food System](#food-system)
              - [4. Shelter](#shelter)
              - [5. Materials System](#materials-system)
              - [6. Knowledge Permanency](#knowledge-permanency)
              - [7. Automation](#automation)
              - [8. Fortification](#fortification)
          - [Island Events Phase](#island-events-phase)
          - [Imperial Actions Phase](#imperial-actions-phase)
          - [Island Actions Phase](#island-actions-phase)
              - [Internal](#internal)
              - [External](#external)
              - [System Power Action](#system-power-action)
                  - [Materials Power Actions](#materials-power-actions)
                  - [Knowledge Power Actions](#knowledge-power-actions)
                  - [Automation Power
                    Actions](#automation-power-actions)
              - [Island Development
                Actions](#island-development-actions)
                  - [Inhabitants](#inhabitants-1)
                  - [Environment](#environment)
                  - [Water System](#water-system-1)
                  - [Food System](#food-system-1)
                  - [Shelter](#shelter-1)
                  - [Materials System](#materials-system-1)
                  - [Infrastructure](#infrastructure)
                  - [Knowledge Permanency](#knowledge-permanency-1)
                  - [Automation](#automation-1)
                  - [Fortifications](#fortifications)
                  - [Neighboring Islands](#neighboring-islands)
  - [7. Combat](#combat)
      - [Battle Escalation and Energy](#battle-escalation-and-energy)
      - [Turn Order](#turn-order)
      - [Mapless Rows](#mapless-rows)
      - [Actions](#actions)
          - [Attack](#attack)
              - [Mapless](#mapless)
          - [Change Armor](#change-armor)
          - [Change Weapon](#change-weapon)
          - [Charge Energy](#charge-energy)
          - [Defend](#defend)
          - [Face Forward](#face-forward)
          - [Grapple](#grapple)
              - [Mapless](#mapless-1)
          - [Move](#move)
              - [Mapless](#mapless-2)
          - [Perform Technique](#perform-technique)
          - [Use Item](#use-item)
      - [Movement Types](#movement-types)
      - [Special Circumstances](#special-circumstances)
      - [Status Conditions](#status-conditions)
  - [8. World Details](#world-details)
      - [True Allies](#true-allies)
          - [Other Sky Islands](#other-sky-islands)
          - [Ocean Islands](#ocean-islands)
          - [Slave Camps](#slave-camps)
      - [Temporary Allies](#temporary-allies)
          - [Unpaid Legions](#unpaid-legions)
          - [Exoticist Senators](#exoticist-senators)
          - [Other Superpowers](#other-superpowers)
      - [The Empire](#the-empire-1)
          - [The Imperial Adtextus](#the-imperial-adtextus)
          - [The Emperor](#the-emperor)
      - [Intentionally Unanswered
        Questions](#intentionally-unanswered-questions)
  - [9. Pre-Made Allies](#pre-made-allies)
      - [Animals](#animals)
          - [Bear](#bear)
          - [Birdhorse](#birdhorse)
          - [Heresy Dragon](#heresy-dragon)
          - [Salt Mouse](#salt-mouse)
          - [Sky Jellyfish](#sky-jellyfish)
  - [10. Pre-Made Blended Realm
    Creatures](#pre-made-blended-realm-creatures)
  - [11. Pre-Made Enemies](#pre-made-enemies)
      - [T1 Recruit](#t1-recruit)
          - [Bandager Slave](#bandager-slave)
          - [Gladiator Initiate](#gladiator-initiate)
          - [Misanthrope Initiate](#misanthrope-initiate)
          - [Legion Recruit](#legion-recruit)
          - [Manipulated Corpse](#manipulated-corpse)
          - [Starved Dog](#starved-dog)
          - [Starved Rooster](#starved-rooster)
      - [T2 Scout](#t2-scout)
          - [Gladiator Blooded](#gladiator-blooded)
          - [Imperial Scout](#imperial-scout)
          - [Watcher Controller](#watcher-controller)
          - [Possessed Watcher](#possessed-watcher)
          - [Starved Bloodhound](#starved-bloodhound)
      - [T3 Auxilia](#t3-auxilia)
          - [Auxilia Archer](#auxilia-archer)
          - [Auxilia Swordsman](#auxilia-swordsman)
      - [T4 Equestrian](#t4-equestrian)
          - [Auxilia Cataphract](#auxilia-cataphract)
          - [Auxilia War Elephant](#auxilia-war-elephant)
          - [Imperial Equestrian](#imperial-equestrian)
      - [T5 Legion](#t5-legion)
          - [Pact Dragon](#pact-dragon)

# 1\. Introduction

The Empire hungers for the life force of your flying island in the sky,
and will also enslave everyone on it, including you. Now what?

## Group Organization

The game group for **Sky Islands** is organized around a single island.
Each Island is a full character unto itself, and is capable of
communication with other life forms.

It is customary for at least one of the people to be designated the
**Game Master**, responsible for thinking of new challenges and twists,
while the others in the group are the **Players**. The focus of the game
is on a conflict with a known entity, rather than mystery, so it is
possible for the position of Game Master to be rotated without losing
grasp of the overall storyline.

For a stable group that customarily relies on a single **Game Master**
for long periods of time, it is practical for the **Game Master** to
introduce deeper mysteries and more complex plots as the campaign goes
on. Otherwise, if a group typically has difficulty having a consistent
**Game Master**, then it should stick to the war against the Empire, and
keep all the larger plot elements to their own characters. Most of the
lore is implicit rather than explicit - the rest must be extrapolated
and grown based on events that occur throughout game.

A group with no **Game Master** is possible, if there is work put into
making the antagonists act and strategize autonomously. This is the
basis of some board and card games (which the writer of **Sky Islands**
enjoys very much), but less research has been spent on accomplishing
this for complex role-playing games such as **Sky Islands**.

Each **Player** is responsible for creating and playing at least one
**Player Character**. It is usually difficult for a **Player** to have
more **Player Characters** than everyone else while still giving room
for the rest of the group to engage in role-playing. It is not
impossible, but you need to know your group dynamics well before you
allow such a situation.

There is always a risk of one or more **Players** telling others how to
design and grow their **Player Characters**. An organized force can be
more effective than a mob of individuals doing their own thing, but
every single **Player** must be given space and trust to make their own
decisions, and practice a bit of creativity.

## The World

The World’s name, in the language of your Island, is something you need
to listen to the Island to find out. Its surface is full of turbulent
oceans, jagged crags, opaque fogs, active volcanoes, and shifting
deserts. The reasons why so much of the World is this way are deep in
your Island’s memory, and it teaches you and your people to never repeat
the same mistakes that caused this situation.

There are continents with powerful nations on them, but they sustain
themselves through predation and exploitation. They could change their
ways and restore the lush forests, swamps and jungles that they once had
on their continents, but their destructive systems are too deeply
entrenched in their politics. In short, they are perpetuating the
mistakes that resulted in the ruined state of the rest of the World.
They are exactly what your Island warned you about.

It is up to the Sky Islands to practice the growth of life, and the
expansion of life-bearing capacity. But they can only fly so quickly.
Your Island is too close to the nation you call The Empire, and that
Empire’s military forces creep forward faster than your Island can
escape. Now it is time to stand and fight.

## The Empire

The Empire uses its magical word system, the Imperial Adtextus, to
control life energy flows. It is designed to be overly simplistic, to
compress everything down into mere resources for Imperial utilization.
Any living being who is subjected to it is inevitably drained to death
so that the system can exercise its power against others.

Everything is transformed for the sake of the hungry and violent system.
It burns through life so frequently that it must enslave bodies after
death to extract more labor and toil. Magical arts that were originally
for listening to and celebrating the dead have been twisted to oppress
them instead. Animals, too, are starved and harmed into frenzy so that
they will be useful for murder squads.

The Adtextus can be considered a mere formalization and systemization of
many things the Empire had done prior to its codification. The Empire
itself was founded by the act of draining a Sky-Island of its life force
in order to keep imperial farming practices functioning for a few more
years, rather than actually fix their practices. The proponents of
farming technique upgrades were punished by publicly having their life
force drained in order to make the senators slightly younger.

Even the senators and emperors are still mutated into shadows of their
original selves, sometimes dying young despite draining many of their
slaves of life force. Many Sky-Islands and their inhabitants are
likewise deformed from mere proximity to the Empire. But if you regain
the word system that is sufficiently-complex to describe yourself, then
you can be restored.

The Imperial Adtextus is not able to reproduce itself. It relies on
Imperials to willingly do that, in exchange for temporary power gained
by its practice. This has fueled the Empire into becoming a frightening
military power, draining island after island in order to keep going in a
zombie state. If left alone then it will surely collapse in on itself,
but it keeps on finding new ways to reach other islands and wage war
against them.

## The Blended Realm

The Blended Realm is so-named because it looks like large swathes of
solid colors, which blend together at special edges to create chaotic
but beautiful reactions. The solid-color regions are purely of one
element, and are home to plants, sentient creatures, spirits, and other
things that are purely of that element. They can even be brought back to
the solid world with no ill effects, although they can return to their
origins in the Blended Realm whenever they wish. If someone uses dirt or
other material from the Blended Realm to construct something in the
solid world, then they could return at some random time, unless their
bound creatures and spirits agree to keep them in the solid realm for a
specific amount of time.

The Realm is easily accessible to those outside of the influence of the
Imperial Adtextus. Yet it is also quite dangerous, for it morphs and
shifts in ways that are not amenable to any way of life that was learned
in the solid world. Some Sky Islands have given up existence in the
solid world to land on the Blended Realm, but they are still not immune
to the Empire, they merely have gained some terrain advantages. The
Empire has specialized auxilia - slave soldiers captured from other
islands - who are able to invade the Blended Realm.

The Realm reacts to the health of the solid world. The worse the
condition of the Islands in the solid world, the more the Blended Realm
retreats from it, and the more difficult it is for mortals to shift
themselves into the Realm. It is feared that if the Empire were to take
over the world, then the Blended Realm would leave forever.

All magical powers available to your Island and your characters are
merely temporary contracts with the natives of the Blended Realm. For
example, a fireball spell merely takes a chunk from a fire region,
flings it until it hits something, then returns it to where it was. The
Energy spent to invoke the spell is the payment to the creatures and
spirits who are bound to it.

The Blended Realm also connects to other planes of existence, which have
their own challenges. These other planes range from utopian paradises to
states worse than the Empire, and so they are generally left alone, lest
one accidentally find a potential ally of the Empire.

# 2\. Your Island

The game group revolves around the Island. It is inevitable that players
need to join or leave the group for various reasons, especially schedule
and life maintenance. But the Island is always the center, and any new
players must still become a part of it somehow.

## Creation of the Island

### Island Statistics

For each of the following, roll 10 dice and multiply by 10. This is a
total of 10 times that you roll the dice. This will result in deficits
that you must deal with the consequences of.

Inhabitants:

  - Animals - divide in half, round down
  - People - divide in half, round down

Systems:

  - Automation
  - Food System
  - Fortifications
  - Island Health
  - Knowledge Permanency
  - Materials System
  - Shelter
  - Water System

### Island Governance

The best island governance systems have traits such as:

  - Inclusion of the Island’s voice as being equal to or greater than
    the voices of those who live on it.
  - Caring for those who are unable to work, ensuring they have water,
    food, shelter, and communication. In general, anyone can grab food
    as long as they eat it fully in the presence of the community,
    wasting nothing.
  - Positive recognition and celebration of special mental traits.
  - Positive recognition and celebration of gender transition, for
    anyone who discovers that they need such transformation to become
    their true selves.
  - Understanding all life forms on the Island as being part of a
    holistic ecosystem, so that no species is ever allowed to control
    any other, nor be considered more deserving of resources than any
    other.
  - No ownership of anything you cannot carry or use yourself. No
    inheritance. No debt.
  - No hierarchical government. No separate roles of violence, everyone
    who is “of age” must share that burden equally.
  - Representatives must come from the workers, and must return to the
    workers. They are only convened for special purposes, such as war
    against the Empire, or focusing on a specific crisis.

Island governance systems that do not have such traits are likely to be
making evil deals with the Empire, or may even be occupied by the
Empire, with the life-draining power of the Imperial Adtextus planted on
it.

Whatever form the system begins in, the Player-Characters definitely do
not start out in charge of it. And ideally no person or faction can ever
be in charge of it.

# 3\. Player Characters

## Traits

Choose zero, one, two, three, or four traits. Of course, choosing four
is the most powerful in game terms.

You can also save trait choices for later. In fact, if this is your
first time creating a character, then you should reserve all four trait
choices for later.

  - **Abiotic** - You do not need water, food, or sleep. You only need
    maintenance and recharging, both of which can be done while you are
    awake.
  - **Acid Blood** - Whenever you take more than 1 damage, you cause
    1/4th of the damage to all enemies within 5 feet, for a minimum of 1
    damage dealt. You can also use your blood to melt through solid
    objects given enough time and enough blood to spare.
      - *Mapless* - The damage is dealt to three enemies in the front
        row.
  - **Amorphous** - Your natural form is a something like gelatin, ooze,
    slime, or good-quality chilled broth. You can use this form to slide
    down slopes, down drains, into pipes, etc. However, this causes all
    of your combat gear to fall off, and you also cannot perform combat
    actions in that form.
  - **Antigrav** - You always have Hover I. This improves to Hover II at
    Power Level 20, Hover III at Power Level 40, and Hover IV at Power
    Level 60.
  - **Aquatic** - You always have Swimming I. This improves to Swimming
    II at Power Level 20, Swimming III at Power Level 40, and Swimming
    IV at Power Level 60. You can also hold your breath for long periods
    of time underwater.
  - **Bouncy Body** - Your Grapple actions move enemies by 5 additional
    feet.
      - *Mapless* - Your Grapple actions remove 1 additional Maneuver
        from enemies.
  - **Claws / Fangs / Horns / Spikes** - You always have Ironfist I.
    This improves to Ironfist II at Power Level 20, Ironfist III at
    Power Level 40, and Ironfist IV at Power Level 60.
  - **Cold Blooded** - Health loss during the status phase is halved.
  - **Constrictor** - Your accuracy for grapples is increased by an
    amount equal to half your Power Level.
  - **Echolocation** - Your Physical Accuracy is not affected by status
    conditions.
  - **Elemental Breath: Specific Element** - You must choose one element
    for this physical feature. That element is locked-in for life. You
    can spend 2 action points to do the Elemental Breath technique
    without an energy cost.
  - **Energy Being** - Your Charge actions restore double Energy to
    yourself. Half of all Health damage that you take is additionally
    dealt to your Energy.
  - **External Digestion** - Your Grapple actions do double damage.
  - **Fur / Scales / Thick Hide** - You have a natural body covering
    that insulates you from some types of environmental conditions. You
    gain two extra chances for Dramatic Chances that involve spending
    long periods of time in hot or cold environments.
  - **Gills** - You are able to breathe while submerged.
  - **Heavy Body** - Grapple actions against you do not move you.
  - **Hermaphrodite** - You can morph your sexual characteristics by
    concentrating on them for several minutes in a safe area.
  - **Imperial Body Shape** - If you wrap yourself in heavy clothing,
    then you look like an Imperial from a distance, thus avoiding
    immediate attack if you are travelling by yourself. It is also
    possible that you are an ex-Imperial, but due to being free of the
    Adtextus, your body is quite visibly healthy and non-Imperial.
  - **Integrated Weapons** - You gain 2 extra skill points every Power
    Level, as well as at character creation, which can be spent on
    skills in the Weapon Training group. You must still follow the limit
    of skill ratings being capped by your Power Level. Furthermore, it
    only costs 1 AP to change what is in your hands rather than 2 AP.
  - **Long Lived** - You are able to stay young for thousands of years.
    You gain 5 extra skill points every Power Level, as well as at
    character creation, for skills in the Artistic, Physicality, Science
    and Tradeskills groups. You must still follow the limit of skill
    ratings being capped by your Power Level.
  - **Multi Armed** - You are able to use a two-handed weapon and one
    shield, at the same time.
  - **Multi Colored** - You gain 2 extra skill points every Power Level,
    as well as at character creation, which can be spent on skills in
    the Magical Elements group. You must still follow the limit of skill
    ratings being capped by your Power Level.
  - **Multi Mind** - You have more than one complete mind existing
    within you at once. Each mind has its own complete set of skills and
    stats. You must spend 4 APs to change your active mind in the middle
    of battle, and this could potentially leave you holding the wrong
    equipment for a bit longer than that. This also results in losing
    all of your current Energy. In the middle of dramatic situations,
    you cannot change your active mind except in response to specific
    conditions that trigger different minds.
  - **Necropower** - When you do a killing attack or technique, you get
    one free Charge action.
  - **Phasing** - You always have Teleport I. This improves to Teleport
    II at Power Level 20, Teleport III at Power Level 40, and Teleport
    IV at Power Level 60.
  - **Photosynthetic** - When you take Light or Water damage, you can
    consider it to be Wood damage instead.
  - **Power-Jumping** - You always have Jump I. This improves to Jump II
    at Power Level 20, Jump III at Power Level 40, and Jump IV at Power
    Level 60.
  - **Quadruped** - You always have Swiftfoot I. This improves to
    Swiftfoot II at Power Level 20, Swiftfoot III at Power Level 40, and
    Swiftfoot IV at Power Level 60.
  - **Regeneration** - You heal 1 Health in each Status Phase. You
    always fully-heal outside of combat.
  - **Reincarnation** - You remember past lives. You gain 5 extra skill
    points every Power Level, as well as at character creation, for
    skills in the Artistic, Physicality, Science and Tradeskills groups.
    You must still follow the limit of skill ratings being capped by
    your Power Level.
  - **Shifter** - You can spend 4 AP to shift into the Blended Realm.
    Getting back is rather difficult, especially without others from
    your Island to help connect you and guide you back home. The amount
    of time it takes to shift back alone unassisted is most likely an
    entire Strategic Turn.
  - **Symbiote** - You have another organism inside of you, who can keep
    you alive and revive you. This process takes a whole day, and can be
    interrupted by additional damage to your body, e.g. enemy soldiers
    stabbing corpses to make sure they stay down.
  - **Temporal Anomaly** - You are actually from a different position in
    Space-Time, or even a different dimension. At the beginning of the
    Status Phase, you remove one status condition of your choice.
    Unfortunately, if you only have beneficial status conditions, you
    must still remove one.
  - **Undead** - Any effect that would drain your Health and give it to
    someone else is reversed, so that instead, you drain that other
    person’s Health. Any effect done by a non-undead that would normally
    restore your Health instead causes damage to you, ignoring Armor.
    Thus you rely on yourself to keep your Health up. When you die, you
    pop back up after 4 status phases at 1 Health. You can freely give
    up undeath at any time to enter regular death.
      - Enemy Undead who have been defeated, and are within the range of
        a Sanctuary Aura, will be able to freely choose normal death at
        that moment. Alternately, someone can spend 4 APs to remove the
        undead’s control bolts and allow them to continue in undeath but
        with free will.
  - **Venomous Claws / Fangs / Stinger** - Your unarmed attacks which do
    more than 1 damage also cause one stack of the Venom status
    condition.
  - **Venomous Skin / Spines** - Anyone who does an unarmed attack to
    you, or attempts to grapple you, immediately receives one stack of
    the Venom status condition.
  - **Venomous Spit / Eye Blood** - You can do a ranged attack that does
    exactly 2 points of damage, ignoring Physical Armor, which adds one
    stack of the Venom status condition to the target.
  - **Wings** - You always have Winged I. This improves to Winged II at
    Power Level 20, Winged III at Power Level 40, and Winged IV at Power
    Level 60.

## Defining Yourself In Terms Of Your Island

Answer at least one of the following questions, or as many more as you
like:

  - What kinds of conversations have you had with your Island?
  - What is a special place you share on the Island with someone else?
  - What is one example of you taking something from the Island, then
    giving back something else?
  - Who is your family on the Island?
  - Who are you specially-bonded with on the Island?
  - If you were not born with the Island, how did you come to it?
  - If you were born on the Island, what did the Island do to note the
    occasion?
  - What is the representation of your connection to the Island when you
    travel to the Blended Realm?

## The Empire Fails To Define You

Choose one or more of the following ways in which the Imperial Adtextus
rejects your existence. And make no mistake - anyone who tries to
assimilate into the Empire will be “rewarded” by their soul being
drained to transfer the energy to an unsustainable system. The best that
one can aspire to is to have their soul drained the most slowly, as even
Emperors succumb to dementia more quickly than your own people do.

  - **Disabled** - Your tools and work methods are not allowed by the
    Imperial Adtextus. Consequently, it claims that it is actually you
    who are unable to do anything useful. This is despite the fact that
    you get more stuff done than the average Imperial.
  - **Disloyal** - You have worked more than one job in your life, or
    have tried more than one way of doing things. You think about
    different ways to solve a problem. The Adtextus defines such a life
    as a “disloyal” one.
  - **Misgendered** - The Imperial Adtextus’ strict binary gender system
    cannot possibly encompass you. Or, perhaps you have committed the
    anti-Imperial crime of not wanting to get pregnant at age 12.
  - **Nonlinear** - You do not speak in the manner of Imperial
    philosophers or senators. You could actually be more logical,
    systematic, and thorough than any of them, but because the Adtextus
    does not say to talk like that, they call you “Nonlinear”.
  - **Primitive** - Your food, water, and shelter systems do not look
    like the approved patterns of the Adtextus.
  - **Savage** - Imperials cannot comprehend your practices or
    traditions, nor does the Adtextus explain them, so they call you
    “Savage”.
  - **Weak** - You do not think that you should attack first and talk
    later. Therefore, the Adtextus calls you “Weak”. You are most likely
    stronger than the average Legion soldier, too.

## Stats

The Stats are:

  - Maximum Health
  - Maximum Energy
  - Physical Accuracy
  - Physical Evasion
  - Physical Power
  - Physical Armor
  - Magical Accuracy
  - Magical Evasion
  - Magical Power
  - Magical Armor

Choose four stats to start with a rating of 10, four stats to start with
a rating of 15, and two stats to start with a rating of 20.

Then, increase the Maximum Health rating by 20 more.

### Where are Strength, Intelligence, etc?

There is intentionally no relationship between stats, and traits which
may be described as being anything like “strength”, “intelligence”, etc.
For example, Physical Power does not indicate muscle size, although you
may choose to describe your character thusly. In fact, it is possible
for any or all stats to be entirely supernatural in nature.

For example, an incorporeal being inhabiting a suit of armor can
represent “Physical Power” as their ability to put fighting intent into
their techniques, as they have no muscles or bones whatsoever.

Another example is a bodybuilder who chooses to start with a Physical
Power of 10 rather than 20. This person may have a fear of hitting
things hard, or may just lack explosiveness due to performing weight
training rather than plyometric training.

## Skills

Choose one **Skill** from each of the **Skill Groups**. Then choose ten
other skills. These twenty skills all start with a rating of 1.

The **Skills** and **Skill Groups** themselves are described in much
more detail in [Chapter 4: Character Skills](#character-skills).

## Personal Items

You start with any personal items which help explain all of the above.
They do not enhance stats or skills, they merely serve as possible ways
in which you express those.

## Power Levels

Characters start at **Power Level** 1.

Whenever **Power Level** is increased (usually at the end of each
gameplay session), characters improve as follows:

  - All stats have their rating increased by 1.
  - Then, the rating for Maximum Health is increased by 1 more.
  - Choose five stats to have their rating increased by 1 more. If
    Maximum Health is chosen, then it is increased by 2 instead of 1.
  - Choose one skill from each of the Skill Groups. Then choose ten
    other skills. These twenty skills all have their rating increased by
    1. If the skill started at 0, then there must be some explanation of
    how it was learned, trained, and practiced.

# 4\. Character Skills

To repeat from the [Player Characters](#player-characters) chapter:

  - For new characters: Choose one skill from each of the Skill Groups.
    Then choose ten other skills. These twenty skills all start with a
    rating of 1.
  - Upon increasing **Power Level**: Choose one skill from each of the
    Skill Groups. Then choose ten other skills. These twenty skills all
    have their rating increased by 1. If the skill started at 0, then
    there must be some explanation of how it was learned, trained, and
    practiced.

## Skill Categories and Skill Descriptions

  - **Armor Training Group**
      - **Unarmored** - Always have some basic protection, even while
        naked. However, you cannot gain the benefit of any magic that
        enhances armor or shields.
      - **Shields** - Use one hand to focus on protecting yourself.
      - **Light Armor**
      - **Heavy Armor**
      - **Magic Armor**
  - **Weapon Training Group**
      - **Barehanded** - You always have some basic attack power, but
        you also gain no benefits from anything that affects weapons,
        nor can you use weapon-based techniques. You end up relying on
        other kinds of techniques to get things done.
      - **One-Handed Melee Weapons**
      - **Two-Handed Melee Weapons**
      - **One-Handed Reach Weapons**
      - **Two-Handed Reach Weapons**
      - **One-Handed Ranged Weapons**
      - **Two-Handed Ranged Weapons**
      - **One-Handed Magical Weapons**
      - **Two-Handed Magical Weapons**
  - **Magical Elements Group** - Used in combination with skills of the
    Magical Techniques Group. Dark and Light have no relation to good
    and evil - except in the Imperial Adtextus. Some of the most
    trustworthy, honest, and generous people are specialists of the
    Dark. Some of the worst people are specialists of the Light.
    Creatures of opposite elements do not necessarily hate each other.
    In fact they sometimes form symbiotic relationships.
      - **Air** - opposite of Earth
      - **Crystal** - not opposite to any other element
      - **Dark** - opposite of Light
      - **Earth** - opposite of Air
      - **Fire** - opposite of Water
      - **Light** - opposite of Dark
      - **Moon** - opposite of Wood
      - **Water** - opposite of Fire
      - **Wood** - opposite of Moon
  - **Magical Techniques Group** - Used in combination with skills of
    the Magical Elements Groups. All magical techniques must be used in
    association with one specific element. Available techniques are
    determined by the lowest of the element and technique skill. For
    example, one of the techniques from Elemental Energy Techs rating 5
    is Elemental Spark. Elemental Spark can only be used with elements
    if your skill in those elements is also at rating 5.
      - **Alchemy Techs** - Preparation and expert usage of items.
        However, you can only have a certain number of items prepared at
        a time, and when they all get used up, you must spend a
        **Strategic Turn** to prepare more.
      - **Blended Mind Techs** - Directly connecting your mind with
        whole elemental regions of the Blended Realm. This allows you to
        project your mind back out into the material plane of existence
        in new ways.
      - **Elemental Energy Techs** - Pure elemental power from the
        Blended Realm. These techniques can be energy and time
        intensive, but they also build up to great power.
      - **Hexenkraft Techs** - Magic pulled directly into people’s
        bodies, weapons, and armor. This is most often associated with
        immediate healing, but also has deeper intricacies and
        complexities.
      - **Martial Techs** - Channeling magic through one’s own body to
        create powerful fighting techniques. If you are both unarmed and
        unarmored, you will likely rely on Martial Techs heavily in
        combat.
      - **Musical Techs** - Reserves action points in order to create
        constant effects around yourself.
      - **Summoning Techs** - Temporary contracts with creatures from
        the Blended Realm.
      - **Weapon Melee Techs** - Forming magical power within one’s
        weapon.
      - **Weapon Ranged Techs** - Focusing magical power into
        projectiles.
  - **Artistic Group**
      - **Architecture: <Specific Style>**
      - **Dance Style: <Specific Style>**
      - **Drawing and Painting Style: <Specific Style>**
      - **Food Presentation: <Specific Cuisine>**
      - **Musical Instrument: <Specific Instrument>**
      - **Sculpting and Modeling: <Specific Subject Type>**
      - **Singing: <Specific Genre>**
  - **Physicality Group**
      - **Acrobatics**
      - **Impersonation**
      - **Powerfeats**
      - **Sleight of Hand**
      - **Sneaking**
      - **Traversal**
  - **Science Group**
      - **Astronomy**
      - **Biology**
      - **Chemistry**
      - **Logic Systems**
      - **Mathematics**
      - **Physics**
      - **Planes of Existence**
      - **Sociology**
  - **Tradeskills Group**
      - **Animals**
      - **Bureaucratic**
      - **Crafting**
      - **Locks**
      - **Metalworking**
      - **Nautical**
      - **Plants**
      - **Traps**
  - **Linear Tactics Group** - This group is based on forming straight
    battle lines. With these tactics, it is recommended to use least two
    lines: a front line for soaking damage and picking apart anyone who
    comes too close, and a rear line for damage output and support. This
    skill group is not contradictory with the **Zone Tactics Group**,
    and can in fact go well together, especially at higher skill
    ratings.
      - **Rampart Aura** - Blocking enemies from moving past you.
        Important for anyone who must hold the edge of a battle line.
      - **Shield Wall**
      - **Siegebreaker**
      - **Spear Wall**
      - **Volley Fire**
  - **Zone Tactics Group** - This group is based on forming separate
    circular battle groups who quickly move together and seek out weak
    enemy groups to break through. This skill group is not contradictory
    with the **Linear Tactics Group**, and can in fact go well together,
    especially at higher skill ratings.
      - **Animal Speaker Aura** - Communicate defensive maneuvers to
        allied animals, and stifle Imperial mind control on enemy
        animals.
      - **Barrier Aura** - Project a constant barrier to block physical
        attacks.
      - **Regeneration Aura** - Constantly regenerate health.
      - **Sanctuary Aura** - Prevent the usage and targeting of Imperial
        Undeath Techniques.
      - **Terror Aura** - Instill physical fear into enemies.

## Armor Training Group

### Unarmored

While not wearing any armor or shields, your Unarmored skill rating is
added to Physical Evasion.

Rating 1 - **Ironbody I** - Add 2 to your physical armor and magical
armor while not wearing any armor or shields.

Rating 20 - **Ironbody II** - Supercedes and replaces Ironbody I. Add
1/4th of your Power Level to your physical armor and magical armor while
not wearing any armor or shields.

Rating 40 - **Ironbody III** - Supercedes and replaces Ironbody I and
II. Add half of your Power Level to your physical evasion and physical
armor ratings while not wearing any armor or shields.

Rating 60 - **Ironbody IV** - Supercedes and replaces Ironbody I, II,
and III. Add your Power Level to your physical evasion and physical
armor ratings while not wearing any armor or shields.

### Shields

One shield takes up one hand. Therefore, they cannot be used with
two-handed weapons.

Shields provide the following:

  - Half Skill Rating gained as Physical Evasion
  - Half Skill Rating gained as Magical Evasion

For a minimum of 1 point gained to each stat.

### Light Armor

Light Armor provides the following:

  - Half Skill Rating gained as Physical Evasion
  - Half Skill Rating gained as Physical Armor
  - Half Skill Rating gained as Magical Evasion

For a minimum of 1 point gained to each stat.

### Heavy Armor

Heavy Armor provides the following:

  - Skill Rating gained as Physical Armor
  - Half Skill Rating gained as Magical Armor

For a minimum of 1 point gained to each stat.

### Magic Armor

Magic Armor provides the following:

  - Skill Rating gained as Magical Evasion
  - Skill Rating gained as Magical Armor

For a minimum of 1 point gained to each stat.

## Weapon Training Group

### Barehanded

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking without any gear held in
your hands. That means no weapons and no shields.

With this skill, Unarmed Damage is Physical Power + 0.5x Skill Rating,
for a minimum of 1 added damage. Without this skill, Unarmed Damage is
only equal to Physical Power.

Barehanded rating 1 - **Ironfist I** - Add 2 to your unarmed damage.

Barehanded rating 20 - **Ironfist II** - This supercedes and replaces
Ironfist I. Add 1/4th of your Power Level to your unarmed damage, for a
minimum of 2 added damage.

Barehanded rating 40 - **Ironfist III** - This supercedes and replaces
Ironfist I and II. Add half of your Power Level to your unarmed damage,
for a minimum of 2 added damage.

Barehanded rating 60 - **Ironfist IV** - This supercedes and replaces
Ironfist I, II, and III. Add your Power Level to your unarmed damage.

### One-Handed Melee Weapons

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking with a one-handed melee
weapon. Such weapons can be used to attack enemies within a 5-foot
square that is side-adjacent to your current square.

Weapon Damage is Physical Power + Skill Rating.

Mapless: Front Row to Front Row only

### Two-Handed Melee Weapons

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking with a two-handed melee
weapon. Such weapons can be used to attack enemies within a 5-foot
square that is side-adjacent to your current square.

Weapon Damage is Physical Power + 1.5x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 2
added damage.

Mapless: Front Row to Front Row only

### One-Handed Reach Weapons

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking with a one-handed reach
weapon. Such weapons can be used to attack enemies within a 10-foot
radius.

Weapon Damage is Physical Power + 0.75x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1
added damage.

Mapless: Can reach from your team’s Front Row to the enemy team’s Second
Row, or from your team’s Second Row to the enemy team’s Front Row.

### Two-Handed Reach Weapons

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking with a two-handed reach
weapon. Such weapons can be used to attack enemies within a 10-foot
radius.

Weapon Damage is Physical Power + 1.25x Skill Rating.

Mapless: Can reach from your team’s Front Row to the enemy team’s Second
Row, or from your team’s Second Row to the enemy team’s Front Row.

### One-Handed Ranged Weapons

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking with a one-handed ranged
weapon. Such weapons can be used to attack enemies within a 25-foot
radius, half accuracy within a 35-foot radius, and 1/4th accuracy beyond
that.

Weapon Damage is Physical Power + 0.5x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1
added damage.

Mapless: Can reach from your team’s Front Row to the enemy team’s Third
Row, or from your team’s Third Row to the enemy team’s Front Row.

### Two-Handed Ranged Weapons

Added to your Physical Accuracy when attacking with a two-handed ranged
weapon. Such weapons can be used to attack enemies within a 30-foot
radius, half accuracy within a 45-foot radius, and 1/4th accuracy beyond
that.

Weapon Damage is Physical Power + Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1 added
damage.

Mapless: Can reach from your team’s Front Row to the enemy team’s Third
Row, or from your team’s Third Row to the enemy team’s Front Row.

### One-Handed Magical Weapons

Added to your Magic Accuracy when using a one-handed magical weapon.
However, if you are holding two One-Handed Magical Weapons, then you
must choose which one is active at the time of performing the technique,
while the other Magical Weapon is inactive. Such weapons do different
amounts of damage based on whether they are used to attack enemies
within a 5-foot square that is side-adjacent to your current square, or
further away than that.

Added to your Magic Power when performing techniques that state that
they do magical damage. However, if you are holding two One-Handed
Magical Weapons, then you must choose which one is active at the time of
performing the technique, while the other Magical Weapon is inactive.

Weapon Damage is Magical Power + 0.5x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1
added damage, when used to attack enemies within a 5-foot square that is
side-adjacent to your current square.

Weapon Damage is Magical Power + 0.25x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1
added damage, when used to attack enemies further away up to a 30-foot
radius.

Mapless: Melee mode can reach from Front Row to Front Row only. Ranged
mode can reach from your team’s Front Row to the enemy team’s Third Row,
or from your team’s Third Row to the enemy team’s Front Row.

### Two-Handed Magical Weapons

Added to your Magic Accuracy when using a two-handed magical weapon.
Such weapons do different amounts of damage based on whether they are
used to attack enemies within a 5-foot square that is side-adjacent to
your current square, or further away than that.

1.25x Skill Rating is added to your Magic Power when performing
techniques that state that they do magical damage.

Weapon Damage is Magical Power + 0.75x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1
added damage, when used to attack enemies within a 5-foot square that is
side-adjacent to your current square.

Weapon Damage is Magical Power + 0.5x Skill Rating, for a minimum of 1
added damage, when used to attack enemies further away up to a 30-foot
radius.

Mapless: Melee mode can reach from Front Row to Front Row only. Ranged
mode can reach from your team’s Front Row to the enemy team’s Third Row,
or from your team’s Third Row to the enemy team’s Front Row.

## Magical Techniques Group

### Alchemy Techs

#### Rating 1

**Alchemical Preparation**:

  - You can maintain the existence of a number of alchemical items equal
    to your Alchemy Techs rating. This may be all of one type, or split
    among different types that you know how to prepare. The exception is
    **Alchemical Tablets**, for which each unit of tablets lasts for six
    months.
  - All alchemical preparations can be done together within the span of
    one Strategic Turn.

**Alchemical Expert Usage**:

  - You must have the requisite **Magical Element** and/or **Alchemy
    Techs** skill ratings in order to perform the **Expert Usage**
    abilities.

**Prepare Alchemical Hormone Suppressant Fluid**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of alchemical hormone suppressant fluid can be injected for
    effects that last up to one week.

**Prepare Alchemical Hormone Suppressant Tablets**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of alchemical hormone suppressant tablets will stay good for
    up to six months, and when taken, cause effects that last for one
    day.

**Prepare Alchemical Hormone Fluid**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of alchemical hormone fluid can be injected for effects that
    last up to one week.

**Prepare Alchemical Hormone Tablets**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of alchemical hormone tablets will stay good for up to six
    months, and when taken, cause effects that last for one day.

**Prepare Mental Focus Fluid**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of mental focus fluid can be injected to alleviate focus and
    reading problems in the subject. The effects of the injection last
    for up to one week.

**Prepare Mental Focus Tablets**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of mental focus tablets will stay good for up to six months,
    and when taken, cause effects that last for one day.

**Prepare Healing Leaf**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A healing leaf restores 10 Health to the target.

**Expert Application of Healing Leaf**:

  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Restores 25 Health to the target.

**Prepare Energy Twig**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - An energy twig restores 3 energy to the target.

**Expert Application of Energy Twig**:

  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Restores 10 Energy to the target.

**Prepare Elemental Firecracker**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - An elemental firecracker can be thrown up to 30 feet away to cause 1
    point of elemental damage, ignoring both Physical Evasion and
    Physical Armor.

**Expert Packing of Elemental Firecracker**:

  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Causes an amount of elemental damage equal to one-fourth of your
    Alchemy Techs skill rating, for a minimum of 1 damage. Ignores both
    Physical Evasion and Physical Armor.

#### Rating 5

**Prepare Detox Solution**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A detox solution purges a person of all unwanted alcohol and other
    long-term poisonous substances.

**Prepare Detox Tablets**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A unit of detox tablets will stay good for up to six months, and
    when taken, will cause the body to slowly expel unwanted alcohol and
    other long-term poisonous substances over one week.

**Prepare Curing Bandage**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A curing bandage removes 1 harmful status condition of your choice
    from the target.

**Expert Application of Curing Bandage**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Removes 2 harmful status conditions of your choice from the target.

**Prepare Elemental Sticky Vial**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - An elemental sticky vial can be thrown up to 30 feet away to add 1
    stack of Elemental Sticky Bomb status, ignoring Physical Evasion.
      - **Elemental Sticky Bomb: <Specific>** - You take 1 elemental
        damage of the specific element, per status phase. Multiple
        sticky bombs can stack. Thankfully they have finite durations.

**Expert Packing of Elemental Sticky Vial**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Adds two stacks of Elemental Sticky Bomb status, ignoring Physical
    Evasion.

**Prepare Elemental Landmine**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - Mapless: Targets the front enemy row, and is triggered when an enemy
    uses at least 2 Maneuver.
  - An elemental landmine can be placed on the ground, in the same
    5-foot square as the placer. The landmine remains active for up to
    an hour after placement. The landmine triggers when someone is
    touching its 5-foot square during the status phase. It does an
    amount of elemental damage to whoever is in the trigger area equal
    to the preparer’s Magic Damage + Alchemy Techs rating.

**Expert Placement of Elemental Landmine**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: One 5-foot square
  - Mapless: Targets any enemy row.
  - Places the elemental landmine in the targeted square.

#### Rating 10

**Prepare Preserving Compress**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A preserving compress adds the Preserving Compress status condition
    for 4 status phases.
      - **Preserving Compress** - You do not take damage from status
        conditions.

**Expert Application of Preserving Compress**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Applies the Preserving Compress status condition for 8 status
    phases.

**Prepare Poisongas Neutralizer**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - Mapless: Yourself
  - A Poisongas Neutralizer removes Imperial Poison Gas from the 5-foot
    square that the user is standing in.

**Expert Dispersal of Poisongas Neutralizer**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: One 5-foot square
  - Mapless: Any Ally Row
  - Removes Imperial Poison Gas from the targeted 5-foot square, as well
    as all side-adjacent and corner-adjacent 5-foot squares.

**Prepare Elemental Weapon Resin**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A resin applies the Elemental Weapon Resin status condition for 4
    status phases.
      - **Elemental Weapon Resin: <Specific>** - All of your weapons
        have their damage type changed to be of the specified element.
        They also add your Power Level to the damage. If the damage
        boost occurs, then one stack of this status is removed during
        the status phase. The most recent application of this status
        removes all previous applications. If you have both Elemental
        Weapon Coating and Elemental Weapon Resin statuses, then the
        Resin effect supercedes the Coating effect until the Resin wears
        off, after which the Coating will take over.

**Expert Application of Elemental Weapon Resin**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Applies the Elemental Weapon Resin status condition for 8 status
    phases.

**Prepare Elemental Armor Resin**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A resin applies the Elemental Armor Resin status condition for 4
    status phases.
      - **Elemental Armor Resin: <Specific>** - Requires that you use
        armor and/or a shield. Incoming damage from the specified
        element is nullified. If this occurs, then one stack of this
        status is also removed during the status phase. The most recent
        application of this status removes all previous applications.

**Expert Application of Elemental Armor Resin**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Applies the Elemental Armor Resin status condition for 8 status
    phases.

#### Rating 15

**Auto Item**:

  - Reaction
  - Reserves 1 AP
  - Upon taking more than 1 damage, you perform one Use Item action of
    choice on yourself.

**Prepare Healing Fruit**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A healing fruit restores 20 Health to the target.

**Expert Usage of Healing Fruit**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Restores 50 Health to the target.

**Prepare Energy Berry**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - An energy berry restores 8 Energy to the target.

**Expert Usage of Energy Berry**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Restores 20 Energy to the target.

**Prepare Elemental Explosive Trap**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - Mapless: Targets the front Enemy Row, activates when an enemy in
    that row uses at least 2 Maneuver
  - An elemental explosive trap can be placed on the ground, in the same
    5-foot square as the placer. The trap remains active for up to an
    hour after placement. The trap triggers when anyone is touching its
    5-foot square, or any side-adjacent 5-foot-square, during the status
    phase. It does an amount of elemental damage to everyone in the
    trigger area equal to the preparer’s Magic Damage + Alchemy Techs
    rating.

**Expert Placement of Elemental Explosive Trap**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: One 5-foot square
  - Mapless: Any Enemy Row
  - Places the elemental explosive trap in the targeted square.

#### Rating 20

**Prepare Reviving Needle**:

  - Alchemical Preparation
  - A reviving needle can be used on a combatant at 0 or less Health to
    revive at 1 Health.

**Expert Usage of Reviving Needle**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Type: Throw Object
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Revives the target at an amount of Health equal to 1/4th of their
    Maximum Health.

#### Rating 25

**Prepare Healing Salve**

  - Alchemical Preparation

**Expert Usage of Healing Salve** - Restores 75 Health to the target.

  - Technique
  - 1 AP

**Prepare Energy Brew**

  - Alchemical Preparation

**Expert Usage of Energy Brew** - Restores 30 Energy to the target.

  - Technique
  - 1 AP

#### Rating 35

**Prepare Healing Serum**

  - Alchemical Preparation

**Expert Usage of Healing Serum** - Restores 150 Health to the target.

  - Technique
  - 1 AP

**Prepare Energy Potion**

  - Alchemical Preparation

**Expert Usage of Energy Potion** - Restores 60 Energy to the target.

  - Technique
  - 1 AP

### Blended Mind Techs

#### Rating 1

**Conscious Thought Sending**

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - Sends one conscious thought into an elemental region of the Blended
    Realm, then back out into the mind of someone who has a skill rating
    of at least 1 in that element. This can communicate some quick
    information, but is no more distracting than most other things.

### Elemental Energy Techs

#### Rating 1

**Elemental Hand Trick**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - Pulls a small amount of pure elemental power into your hand for a
    whole day. It is sufficient for one small action that does at most 1
    point of damage, or any other effect of equivalent power. Here are
    some examples depending on the element used.
      - Air: Blow a marble away.
      - Crystal: Temporarily form a glass lens, as large as a monocle.
      - Dark: Hold your hand up to cover your eyes and completely block
        out light.
      - Earth: Form a fragile rock that can be thrown at something.
      - Fire: Set sufficiently-flammable material (such as prepared
        kindling, or fuel-soaked wood) on fire.
      - Light: Create a bright flash that forces one target to look away
        for one second.
      - Moon: Make your beard grow longer. Make your eyes temporarily
        look like cat eyes.
      - Water: Rinse your hair. Fill a shotglass.
      - Wood: Make a flower bloom faster. Make a vine grow a thorn.

**Elemental Food Flavoring**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - Creates a handful of elemental edible substances that will strongly
    affect the flavor of whatever they are mixed into.

**Elemental Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Straight Projectile
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Creates a projectile of elemental energy, then launches it at the
    target. Uses your magical stats and is opposed by magical stats. If
    your Magical Accuracy is more than 1.5x the target’s Magical
    Evasion, then you cause an additional effect based on the element
    used.
      - Air: Adds the Shocked status to the target.
          - **Shocked** - Magical Power and Magical Armor are halved.
            Removed whenever you take Earth elemental damage. Can be
            removed by spending all action points to breathe and calm
            down from the shock.
      - Crystal: Adds the Bleeding status to the target.
          - **Bleeding** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
            Maximum Health per status phase. Removed whenever you gain
            Health.
      - Dark: Adds the Mindmaze status to the target.
          - **Mindmaze** - Magical Accuracy and Magical Evasion are
            halved. Can be removed by spending all action points to
            clear your mind.
      - Earth: Adds the Buried status to the target.
          - **Buried** - Physical Evasion and Physical Power are halved.
            Horizontal movement is halved. Removed whenever you take Air
            elemental damage. Can be removed by spending all action
            points to dig yourself out.
      - Fire: Adds the Burning status to the target.
          - **Burning** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
            Maximum Health per status phase. Removed whenever you take
            Water elemental damage. Can be removed by spending all
            action points to stop, drop, and roll.
      - Light: Adds the Blinded status to the target.
          - **Blinded** - Physical Accuracy and Physical Evasion are
            halved. Cannot do anything requiring line-of-sight. Removed
            whenever you take Dark elemental damage. Can be removed by
            spending all action points to wipe your eyes.
      - Moon: The final damage is halved, and dealt to Energy rather
        than Health. You gain half that much damage (i.e. 1/4th of the
        initial) as Energy.
      - Water: Adds the Chilled status to the target.
          - **Chilled** - Physical Armor and Magical Armor are halved.
            Cannot jump. Removed whenever you take Fire elemental
            damage. Can be removed by spending all action points to jump
            up and down and warm yourself up.
      - Wood: The final damage is halved. You gain that much damage as
        Health.

**Elemental Charge**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Self or Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Gives one elemental charge to the target.

**Transfer Charges**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Transfers all elemental charges on yourself to the target.

#### Rating 5

**Elemental Breath**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Magic Breath
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: All in the area
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row, then three enemies in the
    second row
  - Launches a large burst of elemental energy in front of you, which
    then expands outwards. It targets the 5-foot square in front of you,
    then the side-adjacent and two corner-adjacent 5-foot squares
    further away from you. Uses your magical stats and is opposed by
    magical stats. If your Magical Accuracy is more than 1.5x a target’s
    Magical Evasion, then you cause an additional effect based on the
    element used. Refer to *Elemental Shot* for the additional effect.

**Elemental Spark**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 3 energy
  - Type: Line-of-Sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Creates a spark of elemental energy directly in the face of the
    target. Uses your magical stats and is opposed by magical stats. If
    your Magical Accuracy is more than 1.5x the target’s Magical
    Evasion, then you cause an additional effect based on the element
    used. Refer to *Elemental Shot* for the additional effect.

**Charging Elemental Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 4 energy
  - As Elemental Shot, except as noted here. You also gain an Elemental
    Charge based on the element used.

**Discharging Elemental Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - 3 energy
  - Type: Straight Projectile
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Converts your elemental charges into a single shot. Uses your
    magical stats and is opposed by magical stats. The shot’s damage is
    equal to Magical Power \* 0.5 \* the number of charges. If your
    Magical Accuracy is more than 1.5x the target’s Magical Evasion,
    then you cause additional effects based on the elements of the
    charges used. Refer to *Elemental Shot* for the additional effects.

**Elemental Eyes**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 4 energy
  - 2 Action Points
  - Target: Self
  - Transforms your eyes so that you perceive the linked element, even
    being able to see it through other solid objects and through the
    ground. The visual range for this effect is a maximum of Elemental
    Energy Techs Rating \* 50 meters.

#### Rating 10

**Elemental Charge Absorption**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - Converts all elemental charges on you into Energy for yourself. You
    gain 2 Energy per charge on you converted.

**Elemental Force Object**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 4 energy
  - Duration: Elemental Energy Techs Rating in Minutes
  - Mapless: The object is in the same row as yourself
  - Pulls an elemental object from the Blended Realm into the same
    5-foot square that you are standing in. The object hovers in air and
    can bear some weight on top of it, equal to your Elemental Energy
    Techs rating \* 10 kilograms. The object follows you around within
    the limitations of having the Hover IV movement type. If it cannot
    follow you then it will get stuck, then stay in place until you give
    it a better route. You can maintain at most one Elemental Force
    Object of each element.
      - Air: An ally can jump onto the object and get launched 20 feet
        upwards, then fall back down without taking damage. This allows
        them to make movements that would otherwise not be possible with
        their movement type.
          - Mapless: Allies in the same row with Jump I or better gain 1
            Maneuver.
      - Crystal: The next weapon attack against you will hit the Crystal
        Force Object instead, destroying it.
      - Dark: You can spend 1 Action Point to teleport an object on the
        Dark Force Object to a different Elemental Force Object that you
        or an ally controls.
      - Earth: The Earth Force Object can be directed to roll down a
        slope until it hits a level surface, knocking into all enemies
        in the path. This acts as if targeting the enemies with
        *Elemental Shot*.
          - Mapless: Targets one enemy in each row.
      - Fire: Can be used for cooking and boiling, with different
        temperatures on the same object. The level of precision for the
        temperature is 0.1 degrees celsius, and the level of precision
        for different temperatures per area is 1 micron.
      - Light: Can be used to view from any angle extending from the
        Light Force Object, as well as any other Elemental Force Objects
        controlled by yourself or any ally.
      - Moon: During the status phase, the Moon Force Object restores 1
        Energy to yourself and all allies within 5 feet of the object.
          - Mapless: Affects all allies in the same row.
      - Water: People and objects can hide inside the Water Force Object
        to the point of complete submergence and avoidance from
        line-of-sight. The Water Force Object can also be turned
        sideways to pour water, at a rate of a number of cubic meters
        per turn equal to your Elemental Energy Techs Rating.
      - Wood: You can spend 1 Action Point to permanently affix the Wood
        Force Object to the ground. This will transplant a whole tree
        from the Blended Realm. The tree’s trunk is thick enough to
        completely block movement and visibility through a 5-foot
        square, and has a height equal to Elemental Energy Techs Rating
        \* 20 meters.
          - Mapless: Usable as Cover by those in rows behind you.

**Elemental Ground**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 3 energy
  - Type: Area
  - Range: Line-of-Sight
  - Target: 5-foot-diameter ground area
      - Mapless: Targets either one ally or one enemy.
  - Transforms part of the terrain - or part of thin air that is
    connected to the terrain - into a magical elemental form, depending
    on the element used. The magical terrain has a depth of 2 feet.
      - Air: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into a cloud.
        You and your team can walk on top of the cloud. If there was
        nothing under the terrain, then enemies will fall through if
        they try to walk on it.
          - Mapless: One ally with at least Swiftfoot I gains 1
            Maneuver.
      - Crystal: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into
        transparent crystal.
      - Dark: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into opaque
        obsidian. It also projects a 10-foot-tall field that blocks all
        light and sound, thus blocking vision and echolocation.
          - Mapless: One ally can use it as Cover.
      - Earth: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into solid
        rock.
      - Fire: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into hot
        molten stone. Anyone who steps on the terrain takes 1 damage,
        and if their Magical Evasion is less than your Magical Accuracy,
        then they also get the Burning status condition.
          - Mapless: Targets one enemy.
      - Light: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into a shiny
        reflective metal. During the status phase, whoever is standing
        on the terrain regains 1 energy.
          - Mapless: Targets one ally.
      - Moon: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into barren
        lunar rock.
      - Water: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into a pool
        of water. If it was already water then it becomes 2 feet deeper.
      - Wood: Turns the terrain (or terrain-connected air) into wood and
        vines that you and your team can walk through normally. Enemies
        must spend 10 feet of horizontal movement to traverse the 5 feet
        of wooden ground.
          - Mapless: Targets one enemy, and causes that enemy to lose 1
            Maneuver.

**Elemental Lance**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 6 energy
  - Type: Line
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: All in the 30-foot line
  - Mapless: One enemy in each row.
  - Creates a spike of elemental energy in a straight line. Uses your
    magical stats and is opposed by magical stats. If your Magical
    Accuracy is more than 1.5x a target’s Magical Evasion, then you
    cause an additional effect based on the element used. Refer to
    *Elemental Shot* for the additional effect.

#### Rating 15

**Counterspell**:

  - Reaction
  - Reserves 1 AP
  - When you take more than 1 elemental damage, you perform an Elemental
    Energy Techs technique at the enemy who caused the damage, spending
    double the Energy but also adding your Power Level to the damage.

**Elemental Ball**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Type: Straight Projectile Explosive
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: One 5-foot square
  - Mapless: One row of enemies
  - Creates a ball of elemental energy, then launches it at the
    destination. When the ball hits anything or arrives at its
    destination, whichever happens first, it explodes and targets the
    5-foot square, as well as all side-adjacent and corner-adjacent
    5-foot squares. Uses your magical stats and is opposed by magical
    stats. If your Magical Accuracy is more than 1.5x a target’s Magical
    Evasion, then you cause an additional effect based on the element
    used. Refer to *Elemental Shot* for the additional effect.

**Elemental Chain**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Type: Line-of-Sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Exactly 5 enemies
  - As *Elemental Shot*, except as noted here. If this technique causes
    more than 1 damage to the target, then it chains to another target
    within line-of-sight of the first one and within 30 feet. The chains
    continue until this technique either does 1 or less damage, or has
    hit 5 targets, whichever comes first.

**Great Elemental Charge**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Self or Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Gives three elemental charges to the target.

#### Rating 20

**Elemental Storm**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Type: Auto-targeting Storm
  - Range: 15 feet
  - Target: All enemies within the 15-foot radius
  - Mapless: Front row of enemies
  - Calls down elemental energy to strike all enemies within range. Uses
    your magical stats and is opposed by magical stats. If your Magical
    Accuracy is more than 1.5x a target’s Magical Evasion, then you
    cause an additional effect based on the element used. Refer to
    *Elemental Shot* for the additional effect.

#### Rating 25

**Great Elemental Ground**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Type: 5 side-connected pieces of 5-foot-square ground areas
  - Mapless: Targets five allies or enemies
  - As *Elemental Ground*, except as noted here. If the first piece of
    elemental ground is in thin air attached to ground, then the other
    four pieces can extend therefrom.

**Discharging Elemental Rapid-Fire**

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - Discharging

#### Rating 30

**Great Elemental Ball**

  - Technique
  - 2 AP

#### Rating 35

**Charged Elemental Storm**:

  - Technique
  - 2 AP
  - 15 energy
  - As *Elemental Storm*, except as noted here. You gain an elemental
    charge for each enemy whom you caused more than 1 damage to.

### Hexenkraft Techs

#### Rating 1

**Elemental Soup**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - You infuse a cauldron-volume amount of soup with magical elemental
    taste. This may also result in elemental ingredients visibly
    entering the soup.

**Magic Contraceptive**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - You infuse a bottle-volume amount of liquid with the magical
    property of suppressing fertility for one week. The liquid has a
    magical elemental taste.

**Magic Hormone Replacement**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - You infuse a shotglass-volume amount of liquid with the magical
    property of replacing or enhancing hormones for one whole day, to
    the type that is most strongly aligned with the drinker’s true
    nature. The liquid has a magical emental taste.

**Heal Touch**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - Type: Touch
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One ally in the same row
  - Restore an amount of health to the target equal to your Hexenkraft
    Techs skill rating. The visual effect is derived from the element
    used.

**Heal Ray**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Restore an amount of health to the target equal to your Hexenkraft
    Techs skill rating. The visual effect is derived from the element
    used.

**Resuscitate**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Type: Touch
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One ally in the same row
  - Add three stacks of the Resuscitate status to the target. This
    applies even if the target is dead.

**Elemental Hex Needle**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Produces a needle that then launches at the target instantly. Uses
    your magical stats and is opposed by magical stats.

#### Rating 5

**Elemental Brain Swap**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Touch
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One ally in the same row
  - If the target is willing, then half of their brain is swapped with
    that of a pure-elemental creature for a whole day. This experience
    wildly varies. Some report that they gain a greater understanding of
    the universe and their place in it. Others get the most negative
    parts of their personalities infused with elemental beastiality.

**Elemental Armor Coating**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Add the Elemental Armor Coating status condition to the target.
    Crystal element cannot be used for this technique.
      - **Elemental Armor Coating: <Specific>** - Requires that you use
        armor and/or a shield. Incoming damage from the specified
        element is halved. The most recent application of this status
        removes all previous applications.

**Elemental Weapon Coating**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Add the Elemental Weapon Coating status condition to the target.
      - **Elemental Weapon Coating: <Specific>** - All of your weapons
        have their damage type changed to be of the specified element.
        The most recent application of this status removes all previous
        applications.

**Elemental Weakness**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - If your Magic Accuracy is higher than the target’s Magic Evasion,
    then add the Elemental Weakness status condition to the target for
    the chosen element. Crystal element cannot be used for this
    technique.
      - **Elemental Weakness: <Specific>** - Incoming damage from the
        specified element bypasses your armor. The most recent
        application of this status removes all previous applications.

#### Rating 10

**Elemental Heresy**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Target
  - Remove all status conditions of your choice from the target that are
    associated with the chosen element.

**Elemental Hexing**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - If your Magic Accuracy is higher than the target’s Magic Evasion,
    then add the Elemental Charge Feedback status condition to the
    target for the chosen element. Crystal element cannot be used for
    this technique.
      - **Elemental Charge Feedback: <Specific>** - All element charges
        of the specified element instead cause you to lose health, then
        the charges disappear. The amount is 10% of your Maximum Health
        for each charge. This includes all charges you have when the
        status is first caused, and all charges you gain while having
        this status. The most recent application of this status removes
        all previous applications.

**Elemental Resistance**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Add the Elemental Resistance status condition to the target.
      - **Elemental Resistance: <Specific>** - Incoming damage from the
        specified element is halved, after taking armor into account.
        For example, if you have the Elemental Resistance: Fire status,
        you take 30 physical Fire damage, and you have 20 Physical
        Armor, then you take 5 damage to your Health. The most recent
        application of this status removes all previous applications.
        Note that Elemental Armor Coating applies before subtracting
        armor from the damage, while Elemental Resistance applies after,
        so having both statuses at the same time is a good combination
        if the enemy is only capable of one type of elemental damage.

#### Rating 15

**Energy Armor**:

  - Reaction
  - Reserves 1 AP
  - If you are going to take more than 1 damage to your Health, then you
    cut that Health damage in half and apply it to both your Health and
    Energy.

**Heal Burst**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Type: Sphere centered on self
  - Range: 10 feet
  - Target: Self and all allies in range
  - Mapless: All allies in the same row
  - Restore an amount of health to the targets equal to your Hexenkraft
    Techs skill rating. The visual effect is derived from the element
    used.

**Revive**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 15 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: One target at 0 Health
  - Mapless: Any One Ally
  - Revive the target at 1 Health.

#### Rating 20

**Elemental Dooming**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 20 energy
  - Type: Straight-line projectile
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Magical projectile attack, whose damage is based on the element
    used. Furthermore, if your Magic Accuracy is higher than the
    target’s Magic Evasion, then add a status condition to the target,
    based on the element used.
      - Air: Suffocation
          - **Suffocation** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of
            your Maximum Health per status phase. Horizontal movement is
            limited to 5 feet. Removed whenever you take Earth elemental
            damage.
      - Crystal: Fragility
          - **Fragility** - Physical Armor is zero. Removed whenever you
            take magical damage. Can be removed by spending all action
            points to recollect yourself.
      - Dark: Forgetfulness
          - **Forgetfulness** - Lose an amount of Energy equal to 25% of
            your Maximum Energy per status phase. Removed whenever you
            take Light elemental damage.
      - Earth: Entombed
          - **Entombed** - Unable to move. Physical Evasion is zero.
            Removed whenever you take Air elemental damage.
      - Fire: Melting
          - **Melting** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
            Maximum Health per status phase. Physical Armor and Magical
            Armor are halved. Removed whenever you take Water elemental
            damage.
      - Light: Babbling
          - **Babbling** - Unable to do actions that require speaking,
            or spending Energy. Removed whenever you take Dark elemental
            damage.
      - Moon: Moon Madness
          - **Moon Madness** - You are only able to do unarmed attacks
            and techniques. Removed whenever you take Wood elemental
            damage.
      - Water: Dehydration
          - **Dehydration** - Physical Power is zero. Removed whenever
            you take Water elemental damage.
      - Wood: Blood Poisoning
          - **Blood Poisoning** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 25%
            of your Maximum Health per status phase. Removed whenever
            you take Moon elemental damage.

### Martial Techs

#### Rating 1

**Flying Jump Kick**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Move & Melee
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Moves you to the front row, targets enemy in the front row.
  - Perform a move action ending in at least 10 feet of straight line,
    then do a melee attack against one target at the end of the
    movement. The attack’s Physical Accuracy is doubled.

**Random Punches**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row
  - Roll a six-sided die (cube shape). On a roll of 1 or 2, you do an
    unarmed attack with half damage. On a roll of 3 or 4, you do a
    normal unarmed attack. On a roll of 5 or 6, you do double damage,
    and the target’s Physical Armor is halved against the attack. The
    damage type is set to the element used.

**Shoulder Check**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row, knocks the target back by one
    row
  - Perform an unarmed attack, and knock the target back by 5 feet.

**Spinning Clothesline**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Everyone in range
  - Mapless: Three enemies in the front row
  - You spin around and perform an unarmed attack against everyone in
    range, both friend and foe. Your physical accuracy is halved for
    this attack. The damage type is set to the element used.

**Trip And Punch**:

  - Technique
  - 3 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row
  - Perform a grapple action, which is then followed up with an unarmed
    attack that adds your Power Level to the damage.

#### Rating 5

**Candle Extinguishing Fist**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - You do an unarmed attack against one target within range. The damage
    type is set to the element used.

**Counterpunch**:

  - Reaction
  - Reserves 1 AP
  - Mapless: From enemy in the front row
  - When you are attacked by a square-side-adjacent enemy, you perform
    an unarmed attack against that enemy afterwards.

**Ground Shockwave Smash**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Ground Line
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: All in the ground line
  - Mapless: One enemy in each row
  - You do an unarmed attack against all targets who are touching the
    ground within the line.

**Sharp Knuckle Punch**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row
  - Perform an unarmed attack. The target’s Physical Armor is cut to
    1/4th against the attack, but the final damage the target takes is
    also halved.

**Suplex**:

  - Technique
  - 3 Action Points
  - Type: Grapple
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row, target loses all Maneuver
  - Perform a grapple. The target is moved to the 5-foot square behind
    you.

#### Rating 10

**Aura Imbued Fist**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row
  - You do an unarmed attack, except the stats used are Magical rather
    than Physical. You also gain an amount of Magical Accuracy equal to
    your Power Level for this technique.

**Pressure Point Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Melee
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row
  - You do an unarmed attack. The damage type is set to the element
    used. If your magical accuracy is 1.5x the target’s magical evasion,
    then you also cause an additional effect based on the element used.
      - Air: The target flies 50 feet straight up into the air. If the
        target has no means of mitigating the fall, then their armor is
        halved against the attack.
      - Crystal: The target gets two stacks of the Shattered status
        condition.
      - Dark: The attack cannot be evaded, and does not trigger any
        reactions. The attack does not trigger any status conditions
        that say they do anything to the attacker.
      - Earth: The target is knocked back by 15 feet. If the target hits
        a wall as a result, then their armor is halved against the
        attack.
      - Fire: The target gets four stacks of the Overheat status
        condition.
      - Light: 10% of the damage is additionally drained as Energy from
        the target to yourself.
      - Moon: The target gets two stacks of the Stunned status
        condition.
      - Water: Half of the target’s Physical Power is added to the
        damage.
      - Wood: The target gets four stacks of the Thorns status
        condition.

**Self Pressure Point Cleansing**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Target: Self only
  - Remove 4 status conditions of your choice.

#### Rating 15

**Heart Resonance Press**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Type: Touch
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: One ally in the same row
  - Revive one ally at 1 Health.

**Life Energy Resonance**:

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Target: Self
  - You regain an amount of health equal to 1/4th of your Martial Techs
    skill rating, and remove one negative status condition of your
    choice, as long as it is not one that blocks your ability to use
    this technique.

**Ripple Breathing**

  - Technique
  - 2 Action Points
  - Target: Self
  - You breathe (or whatever you need to function) in a manner that
    causes powerful ripples throughout your body. The exact effect
    depends on the element used:
      - Air: You gain the Air Tornado Upper status condition.
          - **Air Tornado Upper** - When you cause more than 1 damage
            with an Unarmed attack or technique, and your Magical
            Accuracy is greater than 1.5x the target’s Magical Evasion,
            you cause the target to spin around and change facing to a
            direction of your choice.
              - Mapless: The target loses 2 Maneuver.
      - Crystal: You gain the Crystal Diffusion Fists status condition.
          - **Crystal Diffusion Fists** - When you cause at least 4
            damage with an Unarmed attack or technique, and your Magical
            Accuracy is greater than 1.5x the target’s Magical Evasion,
            1/4th of your damage is additionally dealt to the target’s
            Energy.
      - Dark: You gain the Dark Force Ark status condition.
          - **Dark Force Ark** - When you cause more than 1 damage with
            an Unarmed attack or technique, you and all
            square-side-adjacent allies regain 1 Energy.
              - Mapless: Your current row
      - Earth: You gain the Earth Stone Pillar Body status condition.
          - **Earth Stone Pillar Body** - You cannot be moved or turned
            around unwillingly. Your Physical Armor is increased by an
            amount equal to half of your Power Level.
              - Mapless: Enemies cannot make you lose Maneuver.
      - Fire: You gain the Fire Wheel Sprinting status condition.
          - **Fire Wheel Sprinting** - Your horizontal movement is
            increased by 10 feet. Every enemy who you move past in
            square-side contact receives an amount of Fire damage equal
            to 1/10th of your Magical Power, ignoring Magical Armor and
            Magical Evasion.
              - Mapless: You gain 2 Maneuver. For every 2 Maneuver that
                you use to target an enemy’s flank or rear, you cause
                the fire damage to one enemy.
      - Light: You gain the Light Shining Finger status condition.
          - **Light Shining Finger** - 1/10th of all damage from your
            Unarmed attacks and techniques is dealt to all enemies who
            are square-side-adjacent to your target, ignoring Evasion
            and Armor.
              - Mapless: The enemy row that contains the enemy you are
                targeting.
      - Moon: You gain the Moon Night-Eye status condition.
          - **Moon Night-Eye** - Your Physical Accuracy, Magical
            Accuracy and Magical Evasion are increased by an amount
            equal to half of your Power Level.
      - Water: You gain the Water Flow Returning Force status condition.
          - **Water Flow Returning Force** - Every time you take more
            than 1 damage from an enemy who is square-side-adjacent, and
            your Magical Evasion is greater than 1.5x that enemy’s
            Magical Accuracy, you immediately do an Unarmed attack
            against that enemy. This does not use APs and occurs
            immediately after you took the damage, thus possibly
            preventing the enemy from using the rest of their APs
            depending on circumstances.
              - Mapless: Front row to front row fighting.
      - Wood: You gain the Wood Tree Of Life status condition.
          - **Wood Tree Of Life** - Every time you regain Health, 1/4th
            of that regain is additionally done to all
            square-side-adjacent allies.
              - Mapless: Your current row.

#### Rating 20

### Musical Techs

#### Rating 1

**Music Maintenance**:

  - Each song requires 1 AP at all times while it is active. You
    activate or deactivate songs at the beginning of your own turn. This
    means you can maintain up to 4 songs at once. Be aware that
    maintaining 4 songs at once means you have no defenses up.
  - You can only activate at most one instance of each song. For
    example, if you activate Song of Energy, you cannot have a second
    Song of Energy active at the same time. If you want a lot of the
    same Song active at once, you will need allies who also have the
    Musical Techs skill to cooperate. Then you and your allies together
    can really start stacking a lot of musical effects.

**Song of Energy**:

  - Affects yourself and all allies.
  - Charge Actions will consume one Elemental Charge, of the same
    element as was chosen for this song, to double the energy gained.
  - If a person does not have any Elemental Charges, of the same element
    as was chosen for this song, then they do not gain any benefits.

**Song of Marching**:

  - Affects yourself and all allies.
  - Mapless: The targeted people gain 1 additional Maneuver per Move
    Action.
  - Affected people under the effect of Shield Wall or Spear Wall gain 5
    additional feet of horizontal movement per Move Action.

**Song of Perception**:

  - Affects yourself and all allies.
  - Adds 1/4th of your Power Level to Magical Accuracy, for a minimum of
    1 point added.

**Song of Protection**:

  - Affects yourself and all allies.
  - Adds 1/4th of your Power Level to Magical Evasion, for a minimum of
    1 point added.

**Song of Rage**:

  - Affects yourself and all allies.
  - Adds 1/4th of your Power Level to Magical Power, for a minimum of 1
    point added.

**Song of Safety**:

  - Affects yourself and all allies.
  - Adds 1/4th of your Power Level to Magical Armor, for a minimum of 1
    point added.

#### Rating 5

**Song of Bloodlust**:

  - Increases Battle Escalation by 1 during the Status Phase.

**Song of Pacifism**:

  - Decreases Battle Escalation by 1 during the Status Phase.

### Summoning Techs

#### Rating 1

**Summon Elemental Form**:

  - Technique
  - 3 AP
  - Type: Summon
  - Range: 5 feet
  - Target: Unoccupied 5-foot square
  - Mapless: Summon starts in the same row as yourself
  - You form a contract with an Elemental Form from the Blended Realm.
    It then appears in the targeted 5-foot square, and fights for you
    and your allies until the end of combat. Even if you are killed, as
    long as your allies continue to honor the contract, the Elemental
    Form will continue to help them. You can maintain a maximum of one
    Elemental Form at a time.
  - The stats of the Elemental Form depend on the specific form you
    choose, which are shown as different techniques of the Summoning
    Techs skill.

**Fundamental Elemental Form**:

  - Elemental Form
  - All stats are equal to 10 + your effective Summoning Techs skill
    rating. Except for Maximum Health, which is equal to 20 + double
    your effective Summoning Techs skill rating.
  - The Fundamental Elemental Form takes double damage from its opposite
    element, but half damage from its same element.

#### Rating 5

### Weapon Melee Techs

#### Rating 1

**Elemental Melee Weapon Visual Effect**:

  - Technique
  - 0 AP
  - 0 energy
  - You charge your melee or reach weapon with visible elemental energy
    for as long as you stay awake.

**Elemental Melee Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 1 energy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack. Its damage type is changed to be
    of the linked element.

**Charging Melee Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 3 energy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack. If you do more than 1 damage,
    then you also gain an elemental charge.

**Cross Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Requires: Two One-Handed Melee or Reach Weapons
  - You attack with both weapons.

**Discharging Melee Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - 1 energy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack. It additionally does physical
    elemental damage for each elemental charge, equal to Physical Power
    \* 0.25 per charge. This extra damage ignores armor.

**Power Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack, and add your Power Level to the
    damage.

#### Rating 5

**Elemental Melee Force**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 3 energy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack. If it does more than 1 damage,
    then it also pushes the target back by 5 feet.

**Elemental Melee Spike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 3 energy
  - Type: Line
  - Range: 15 feet
  - Mapless: One enemy in each row
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack in a 15-foot straight line, using
    yourself as the origin point. The attack targets all enemies in that
    line. The attack’s damage type is changed to be of the linked
    element.

**Elemental Melee Wide Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 3 energy
  - Type: Wide Swing
  - Range: Weapon
  - Mapless: Three enemies in the front row
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack against the first enemy in front
    of you, as well as two enemies standing to the sides of the first
    one who are also within weapon range of you. The attack’s damage
    type is changed to be of the linked element.

#### Rating 10

**Elemental Melee Blasting Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Blast
  - Range: Weapon
  - Mapless: One enemy in the front row and two enemies in the second
    row
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack at the ground within your weapon’s
    range. It must be possible for you to stand on or inside the
    targeted spot, for it to be valid for this technique. The attack
    targets all enemies within a 5-foot radius of that spot. The
    attack’s damage type is changed to be of the linked element.

**Elemental Melee Wave Slash**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 30 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack against an enemy within the range.

**Elemental Melee Guarding Stance**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Gain a status condition based on the element used.
      - Air: Gain the Airyspeedy status.
          - **Airyspeedy** - Horizontal movement speed increased by 10
            feet. Add half your Power Level to your Physical Evasion.
      - Dark: Gain the Shadowconcealed status.
          - **Shadowconcealed** - Add your Power Level to your Physical
            Evasion and Magical Evasion.
      - Crystal: Gain the Crystalbarrier status.
          - **Crystalbarrier** - All melee and reach attacks aimed at
            you will cause the attacker to get the Bleeding status. Add
            your Power Level to your Physical Armor.
      - Earth: Gain the Stonehide status.
          - **Stonehide** - Add your Power Level to your Physical Armor.
            For all melee and reach attacks against you, if your Magical
            Accuracy is higher than the attacker’s Magical Evasion, then
            the attacker gets the Repulsed Weapon status condition.
      - Fire: Gain the Fireaura status.
          - **Fireaura** - You cause fire damage to all adjacent enemies
            during the status phase, as if it had been done by the
            Burning status. Add your Power Level to your Magical Armor.
      - Light: Gain the Shininghead status.
          - **Shininghead** - Add your Power Level to your Evasion and
            Armor against all line-of-sight and ranged techniques.
      - Moon: Gain the Recharging status.
          - **Recharging** - Regain an amount of Energy equal to 10% of
            your Maximum Energy per status phase.
      - Water: Gain the Fluidmotion status.
          - **Fluidmotion** - You move through liquids as if it were
            normal ground. Maximum downwards jump distance is increased
            by 20 feet. You can move upwards through liquids, such as
            waterfalls, without using up any upwards jump.
      - Wood: Gain the Regenerating status.
          - **Regenerating** - Regain an amount of Health equal to 10%
            of your Maximum Health per status phase.

#### Rating 15

**Charge Absorption**:

  - Reaction
  - Reserves 1 AP
  - When you take more than 1 elemental damage, you gain one elemental
    charge per 20 damage whose element type is the same as the damage,
    for a minimum of 1 charge gained. Afterwards, you then add half your
    Power Level to your Armor against that instance of damage.

**Charging Melee Dual Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Do two melee or reach weapon attacks against one target. For each
    attack, if you do more than 1 damage, then you also gain an
    elemental charge.

**Elemental Melee Pillar Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Mapless: Five enemies in the front row
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack at all enemies within an adjacent
    5-foot-radius area, reaching up to 30,000 feet upwards and downwards
    until hitting terrain or clouds. Its damage type is changed to be of
    the linked element. Note that attacking something like a dragon or
    airship from 30,000 feet away could be quite difficult due to the
    required horizontal positioning, but still has a non-zero chance of
    success.

**Crippling Melee Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 8 energy
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack. Its damage type is changed to be
    of the linked element. It also adds a status condition to the enemy
    based on the element used.
      - Air: Adds the Shocked status to the target.
          - **Shocked** - Magical Power and Magical Armor are halved.
            Removed whenever you take Earth elemental damage. Can be
            removed by spending all action points to breathe and calm
            down from the shock.
      - Crystal: Adds the Bleeding status to the target.
          - **Bleeding** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
            Maximum Health per status phase. Removed whenever you gain
            Health.
      - Dark: Adds the Mindmaze status to the target.
          - **Mindmaze** - Magical Accuracy and Magical Evasion are
            halved. Can be removed by spending all action points to
            clear your mind.
      - Earth: Adds the Buried status to the target.
          - **Buried** - Physical Evasion and Physical Power are halved.
            Horizontal movement is halved. Removed whenever you take Air
            elemental damage. Can be removed by spending all action
            points to dig yourself out.
      - Fire: Adds the Burning status to the target.
          - **Burning** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
            Maximum Health per status phase. Removed whenever you take
            Water elemental damage. Can be removed by spending all
            action points to stop, drop, and roll.
      - Light: Adds the Blinded status to the target.
          - **Blinded** - Physical Accuracy and Physical Evasion are
            halved. Cannot do anything requiring line-of-sight. Removed
            whenever you take Dark elemental damage. Can be removed by
            spending all action points to wipe your eyes.
      - Moon: The final damage is halved, and dealt to Energy rather
        than Health. You gain half that much damage (i.e. 1/4th of the
        initial) as Energy.
      - Water: Adds the Chilled status to the target.
          - **Chilled** - Physical Armor and Magical Armor are halved.
            Cannot jump. Removed whenever you take Fire elemental
            damage. Can be removed by spending all action points to jump
            up and down and warm yourself up.
      - Wood: The final damage is halved. You gain that much damage as
        Health.

#### Rating 20

**Spinning Melee Strike**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Mapless: All enemies in the front row
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack at all enemies within weapon
    range. Its damage type is changed to be of the linked element.

**Discharging Melee Blast**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - 10 energy
  - Mapless: Three enemies in the front row
  - Do a melee or reach weapon attack against three different enemies in
    weapon range. It additionally does physical elemental damage for
    each elemental charge, equal to Physical Power \* 0.50 per charge.
    This extra damage ignores armor.

### Weapon Ranged Techs

#### Rating 1

**Elemental Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack. Its damage type is changed to be of the
    linked element.

**Charging Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack. If you do more than 1 damage, then you
    also gain an elemental charge.

**Falling Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 2 energy
  - Type: Line-of-sight
  - Range: 120 feet
  - Target: Single
  - Mapless: Any One Enemy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack. Its damage type is changed to be of the
    linked element.

**Power Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 13 energy
  - You attack, and add your Power Level to the damage.

#### Rating 5

**Bouncing Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack against two targets who are within 5 feet
    of each other. Its damage type is changed to be of the linked
    element.

**Guided Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 5 energy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack, adding your Weapon Ranged Techs skill
    rating to your Physical Accuracy. Its damage type is changed to be
    of the linked element.

#### Rating 10

**Armor-Piercing Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack, ignoring the target’s Physical Armor. Its
    damage type is changed to be of the linked element.

**Elemental Discharging Ranged Ripple**

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - Effects immediately occur based on the elemental charges you were
    holding.
      - Air: You instantly move a square-side-adjacent enemy by 5 feet
        for each Air Charge discharged. All of this movement must be
        done to exactly one such enemy.
          - Mapless: Takes away 2 Maneuver from the target for each Air
            Charge discharged.
      - Crystal: You instantly regain an amount of Health equal to 5% of
        your Maximum Health for each Crystal Charge discharged.
      - Dark: One 5-foot square within your weapon range suddenly sinks
        lower. It moves 2 feet downward for each Dark Charge discharged.
        All of this square height change must be done to exactly one
        square. Whoever was standing on the square can potentially
        suffer falling damage, depending on their movement type.
          - Mapless: Targets the enemy
      - Earth: A square-side-adjacent enemy instantly loses an amount of
        Health equal to 5% of their Maximum Health for each Earth Charge
        discharged. All of this damage must be done to exactly one such
        enemy.
          - Mapless: One enemy in the front row.
      - Fire: You instantly set 5-foot squares on fire, within your
        weapon range. The number of squares affected is equal to the
        number of Fire Charges discharged.
          - Mapless: Targets a number of enemies equal to the number of
            Fire Charges discharged.
      - Light: You instantly move 5 feet for each Light Charge
        discharged.
          - Mapless: Gives you 2 Maneuver for each Light Charge
            discharged.
      - Moon: You instantly move one ally within your weapon range to a
        different square within your weapon range. The distance moved is
        equal to 5 feet per Moon Charge discharged. All of this movement
        must be done to exactly one ally.
          - Mapless: Gives 2 Maneuver to the ally for each Moon Charge
            discharged.
      - Water: You instantly regain an amount of Energy equal to 5% of
        your Maximum Energy for each Water Charge discharged.
      - Wood: The square you are in sprouts a thick tree trunk. It has 2
        feet of height for each Wood Charge discharged.
          - Mapless: The tree trunk can be used by yourself as Cover.

**High-Power Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 10 energy
  - Do a ranged weapon attack, adding your Weapon Ranged Techs skill
    rating to your Physical Power. Its damage type is changed to be of
    the linked element.

#### Rating 15

**Beam Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - 15 energy
  - Mapless: Targets one enemy in each row
  - Do a ranged weapon attack against all enemies in a line, up to the
    maximum range of your weapon. Its damage type is changed to be of
    the linked element.

**Discharging Exploding Shot**:

  - Technique
  - 1 AP
  - Discharging: This technique does not require any corresponding
    Magical Elements skills. Instead, it requires that you are holding
    elemental charges.
  - 5 energy
  - Mapless: Targets any four enemies.
  - Do a ranged weapon attack against one target, as well as all enemies
    who are square-side-adjacent to that target. The attack additionally
    does physical elemental damage for each elemental charge, equal to
    Physical Power \* 0.5 per charge. This extra damage ignores armor.

**Link Attack**:

  - Reaction
  - Reserves 1 AP
  - Mapless: Can be triggered by any one ally
  - When an ally does more than 1 damage to an enemy who is within your
    attack range, and the ally gains an elemental charge, you add your
    attack damage to that ally’s action and gain the same type of
    elemental charge.

## Linear Tactics Group

### Rampart Aura

Rating 1 - **Rampart Aura I** - You project a Rampart Aura five feet to
your sides. When an enemy enters a Rampart Aura, they must stop
horizontal movement. When an enemy moves entirely within the Rampart
Aura, their horizontal movement is limited to 5 feet. When an enemy
exits a Rampart Aura, they can move normally.

  - Mapless: Increases enemy Maneuver costs against your row by 1.

Rating 20 - **Rampart Aura II** - Supercedes Rampart Aura I. You project
a Rampart Aura ten feet to your sides.

  - Mapless: Increases enemy Maneuver costs against your row, and the
    row behind you, by 1.

Rating 40 - **Rampart Aura III** - Supercedes Rampart Aura I and II. You
project a Rampart Aura ten feet to your sides, and five feet to your
front and back.

  - Mapless: Increases enemy Maneuver costs against your row, and the
    row behind you, by 2.

Rating 60 - **Rampart Aura IV** - Supercedes Rampart Aura I, II, and
III. You project a Rampart Aura fifteen feet to your sides, ten feet to
your front and back, and five feet in diagonal directions.

  - Mapless: Increases enemy Maneuver costs against your row, and all
    rows behind you, by 2.

### Shield Wall

Rating 1 - **Shield Wall I** - This technique is in effect when you are
side-to-side with at least one other ally who also has Shield Wall I and
is equipped with a shield. Your Physical Armor is increased by 1/4th of
your Power Level, for a minimum of 1 point increase, against all damage
coming from your front. This protection extends to any ally who is in
the 5-foot square behind you.

  - Mapless: Can Cover for one Ally behind you.

Rating 20 - **Shield Wall II** - Supercedes Shield Wall I if you are
linked with an ally who also has Shield Wall II and is equipped with a
shield. Your Physical Armor increase is 1/2 of your Power Level.

Rating 40 - **Shield Wall III** - Supercedes Shiel Wall I and II if you
are linked with an ally who also has Shield Wall III and is equipped
with a shield. Your Physical Armor increase is 3/4 of your Power Level.

Rating 60 - **Shield Wall IV** - Supercedes Shiel Wall I, II and III if
you are linked with an ally who also has Shield Wall IV and is equipped
with a shield. Your Physical Armor increase is equal to your Power
Level.

### Siegebreaker

Rating 1 - **Siegebreaker I** - You can use five feet of your remaining
horizontal movement upon entering a Rampart Aura. When starting your
movement within a Rampart Aura and travelling entirely within the aura,
you can move a maximum of ten feet.

  - Mapless: Negates Rampart Aura I for yourself.

Rating 20 - **Siegebreaker II** - Supercedes Siegebreaker I. You can use
ten feet of your remaining horizontal movement upon entering a Rampart
Aura. When starting your movement within a Rampart Aura and travelling
entirely within the aura, you can move a maximum of fifteen feet.

  - Mapless: Negates Rampart Aura II for yourself.

Rating 40 - **Siegebreaker III** - Supercedes Siegebreaker I and II. You
can use fifteen feet of your remaining horizontal movement upon entering
a Rampart Aura. When starting your movement within a Rampart Aura and
travelling entirely within the aura, you can move a maximum of twenty
feet.

  - Mapless: Negates Rampart Aura III for yourself.

Rating 60 - **Siegebreaker IV** - Supercedes Siegebreaker I, II, and
III. You can use twenty feet of your remaining horizontal movement upon
entering a Rampart Aura. When starting your movement within a Rampart
Aura and travelling entirely within the aura, you can move a maximum of
twenty five feet.

  - Mapless: Negates Rampart Aura IV for yourself.

### Spear Wall

Rating 1 - **Spear Wall I** - This technique is in effect when you are
side-to-side with at least one other ally who also has Spear Wall I and
is equipped with a reach weapon. You automatically attack enemies who
move into the second 5-foot square to your front.

  - Mapless: Can trigger against one enemy moving into the front row,
    per round.

Rating 20 - **Spear Wall II** - Supercedes Spear Wall I if you are
linked with an ally who also has Spear Wall II and is equipped with a
reach weapon. You automatically attack enemies who move into both of the
5-foot squares to your front. Your Physical Evasion is increased by
1/4th of your Power Level against enemies in the two 5-foot squares to
your front.

  - Mapless: Can trigger against one enemy moving into the front row, or
    second row, per round.

Rating 40 - **Spear Wall III** - Supercedes Spear Wall I and II if you
are linked with an ally who also has Spear Wall III and is equipped with
a reach weapon. You automatically attack enemies who move into both of
the 5-foot squares to your front. Your Physical Evasion is increased by
1/2 of your Power Level against enemies in the two 5-foot squares to
your front.

Rating 60 - **Spear Wall IV** - Supercedes Spear Wall I, II and III if
you are linked with an ally who also has Spear Wall IV and is equipped
with a reach weapon. You automatically attack enemies who move into both
of the 5-foot squares to your front. Your Physical Evasion is increased
by an amount equal to your Power Level against enemies in the two 5-foot
squares to your front.

## Zone Tactics Group

### Animal Speaker Aura

Rating 1 - **Animal Speaker I** - All allied animals within a radius of
5 feet gain a bonus to Physical Evasion, Physical Armor, Magic Evasion,
and Magic Armor, equal to 1/4th of your Animal Speaker Aura skill
rating, for a minimum of 1 point gained. Allied animals who start their
turns within range of the aura also have the ability to pick up,
receive, and use items during that turn. Enemy animals within the same
radius receive a penalty to their stats instead, due to the
counteraction of brainwashing causing them to also forget the associated
combat training. Defeated enemy animals within the radius can choose to
run away, thus exiting combat instantly, or someone can spend 4 APs to
convince the animal to switch sides.

  - Mapless: Targets one Animal in each Front Row.

Rating 20 - **Animal Speaker II** - Supercedes and replaces Animal
Speaker I. The radius is now 10 feet. The stat mod is now equal to 1/2
of your Animal Speaker Aura rating.

  - Mapless: Targets two Animals in each Front Row.

Rating 40 - **Animal Speaker III** - Supercedes and replaces Animal
Speaker I and II. The radius is now 15 feet. The stat mod is now equal
to 3/4 of your Animal Speaker Aura rating.

  - Mapless: Targets five Animals in each Front Row.

Rating 60 - **Animal Speaker IV** - Supercedes and replaces Animal
Speaker I, II and III. The radius is now 20 feet. The stat mod is now
equal to your Animal Speaker Aura rating.

  - Mapless: Targets all Animals.

### Barrier Aura

Rating 1 - **Barrier I** - Both yourself and all alies within a radius
of 5 feet gain a bonus to Physical Evasion and Physical Armor, equal to
1/4th of your Barrier Aura skill rating, for a minimum of 1 point
gained.

  - Mapless: Targets one ally in the same row.

Rating 20 - **Barrier II** - Supercedes and replaces Barrier I. The
radius is now 10 feet. The stat gain is now equal to 1/2 of your Barrier
Aura skill rating.

  - Mapless: Targets two allies in the same row.

Rating 40 - **Barrier III** - Supercedes and replaces Barrier I and II.
The radius is now 15 feet. The stat gain is now equal to 3/4 of your
Barrier Aura skill rating.

  - Mapless: Targets five allies in the same row.

Rating 60 - **Barrier IV** - Supercedes and replaces Barrier I, II and
III. The radius is now 20 feet. The stat gain is now equal to your
Barrier Aura skill rating.

  - Mapless: Targets all allies.

### Regeneration Aura

Rating 1 - **Regeneration I** - Both yourself and all allies within a
radius of 5 feet regain 1 Health during the status phase.

  - Mapless: Targets one ally in the same row.

Rating 20 - **Regeneration II** - Supercedes and replaces Regeneration
I. The radius is now 10 feet. The amount healed is now 5 Health.

  - Mapless: Targets two allies in the same row.

Rating 40 - **Regeneration III** - Supercedes and replaces Regeneration
I and II. The radius is now 15 feet. The amount healed is now 10 Health.

  - Mapless: Targets five allies in the same row.

Rating 60 - **Regeneration IV** - Supercedes and replaces Regeneration
I, II and III. The radius is now 20 feet. The amount healed is now 25
Health.

  - Mapless: Targets all allies.

### Sanctuary Aura

Rating 1 - **Sanctuary I** - Within a radius of 5 feet, including the
5-foot square you are in, you prevent Imperial Undeath Techniques from
being performed and targeted. This also has effects on enemy undead
within range who have been defeated.

  - Mapless: Targets one target from both front rows.

Rating 20 - **Sanctuary II** - Supercedes and replaces Sanctuary I. The
radius is now 10 feet.

  - Mapless: Targets two targets from both front rows.

Rating 40 - **Sanctuary III** - Supercedes and replaces Sanctuary I and
II. The radius is now 15 feet.

  - Mapless: Targets five targets from both front rows.

Rating 60 - **Sanctuary IV** - Supercedes and replaces Sanctuary I, II
and III. The radius is now 20 feet.

  - Mapless: Targets the whole battlefield.

### Terror Aura

Rating 1 - **Terror I** - Within a radius of 5 feet, you cause enemy
Physical Evasion and Physical Armor to be decreased by 1/4th your Terror
Aura skill rating, for a minimum of 1 point of penalty.

  - Mapless: Targets one enemy in the front row.

Rating 20 - **Terror II** - Supercedes and replaces Terror I. The radius
is now 10 feet. The stat decrease is now equal to 1/2 your Terror Aura
skill rating.

  - Mapless: Targets two enemies in the front row.

Rating 40 - **Terror III** - Supercedes and replaces Terror I and II.
The radius is now 15 feet. The stat decrease is now equal to 3/4ths your
Terror Aura skill rating.

  - Mapless: Targets five enemies in the front row.

Rating 60 - **Terror IV** - Supercedes and replaces Terror I, II and
III. The radius is now 20 feet. The stat decrease is now equal to your
Terror Aura skill rating.

  - Mapless: Targets all enemies.

# 5\. Dramatic Scenes

## Dramatic Chances

There are two options - the slow but steady way, or the risky way. The
slow and steady way is always guaranteed to accomplish anything that is
not time-sensitive. The risky way can gain an advantage in a later
situation, but of course can also result in disadvantages, injuries, or
even death. Some situations do not have the slow but steady way as an
option, e.g. running away from someone chasing you.

To do the risky way, the Game Master calls for a coin toss. The
character pursuing the risky way must call heads or tails, then flip a
coin. If the character guesses correctly, the risk pays-off and the
advantage is secured. Otherwise, on a wrong guess, a disadvantage
happens instead.

Some character skills, and other character-specific information, may
provide extra chances in specific situations. The players should also
cooperate to ensure that a variety of angles of attack are used to gain
extra chances.

Example:

  - Jane wants to sneak into a mansion.
  - John points out that Jane’s skillset includes a lot of Wood-based
    magic. Therefore she should try making the mansion itself open up to
    her.
  - Jane checks to see if the mansion is actually made of wood, by
    knocking on it, examining it with her Wood Magic, and other such
    actions.
  - The Game Master confirms that they had previously written the
    mansion as made of wood, including the exterior, the frame, the
    floor, and the doorways. Therefore the strategy of making the
    mansion itself open up to her should give her extra chances when
    infiltrating the risky way.

Example:

  - John tries to light a lantern in a pitch-black environment.
  - The Game Master had written that the environment was pitch-black due
    to Dark Magic. Therefore the Game Master says that lighting a
    lantern does not work.
  - Jane points out that John has an artifact of Light Magic.
  - The Game Master confirms that the artifact would indeed help to push
    back the Dark Magic, and therefore, John could break the artifact
    open to gain extra chances doing things the risky way.

### Skills Giving Extra Chances

Every 10th rating achieved in a skill provides one additional Dramatic
Chance when using that skill.

Example:

  - Jack wants to unlock a door as quickly as possible. Jack also has a
    Locks skill rating of 25. Therefore, Jack gets two extra chances to
    unlock the door.

### Increased Difficulty

Increased Difficulty is represented by requiring different types of
Dramatic Chances. I.E. difficult dramatic situations must be attacked
through multiple angles. This ensures that Dramatic Chances never come
down to just having as many chances as possible for exactly one type of
situation - but rather, that characters are rewarded for covering a
variety of situations.

Example:

  - The Game Master writes a situation in which the player-characters
    are trying to sneak into a secure mansion, in order to rob the
    contents of a masterwork safe.
  - Jane must succeed in sneaking into the mansion. Perhaps the Movement
    skill, under the Adventuring Group, can help here.
  - John must succeed in finding and disabling the darkness traps.
    Perhaps the Traps skill, under the Adventuring Group, can help here.
  - Jack must succeed in unlocking the safe. Perhaps the Locks skill,
    under the Adventuring Group, can help here.

# 6\. Island Rules

## Island Stats

### Inhabitants

**Animals** - They are unable to communicate with their Island in a way
that comes across as complete thoughts to other People, and they cannot
use tools, but they are nevertheless valued. They are usually used for
wool, milk, contributing to the island ecosystem, and other such
purposes.

**People** - Defined as everyone who is capable of communicating with
their Island, as well as using tools. With these two things, they can
then communicate directly, or use their Island as an intermediary.

The required development of Systems can be considered to be Animals +
People for core Systems, and just People for ones that require more tool
usage.

### Systems

**Automation** - Required by People to enable more of them to be
available for strategic actions.

**Island Health** - Required by all Inhabitants. Without it, Animals and
People get sick and die.

**Food System** - Required by all Inhabitants. 1 out of every 5 Animals
also provides 1 Food point, representing milk, honey, fertilizer, and
other things. In desperation, People might cause damage to the Island
Health to feed their hunger, at a ratio of 1 Island Health damage to
provide food for 5 People for one Strategic Turn. They can also
slaughter 1 point of Animals for a quick 1 point of food for that turn
only.

**Fortifications** - Required by all Inhabitants to participate in
effective defense against the Empire.

**Knowledge Permanency** - Required by People, or else they will lose
their ability to maintain everything else.

**Materials System** - Required by People, representing clothes, hand
tools, maintenance of shelter, etc.

**Shelter** - Required by People, can also be provided to Animals if
they do not naturally survive on the land.

**Water System** - Required by all Inhabitants. In desperation, People
might cause damage to the Island Health to slake their thirst, at a
ratio of 1 Island Health damage to provide water for 5 People for one
Strategic Turn.

### Special Constructs

These provide unique flavor. But because they are special, they can be
specifically targeted by the Empire, which would then result in the loss
of key pieces of other Systems.

Every Island should have at least a few. The process of writing them
should be considered part of the development of the culture and
character of the Island.

#### Example Special Constructs

  - **Circle of Rain Drums** - +20 Water System. To commence the rainy
    season, a circle of people gather together and start drumming in
    order to welcome the storms.
  - **Cycle of Fire** - +20 Shelter. Every 10 years, a village must
    spend one year living completely without heating, and learn how to
    endure the cold. After this year of cold, an enemy person or
    building is set on fire to renew the cycle.
  - **Legend of the Peacemaker** - +20 Knowledge Permanency. The People
    of the Island were unified by someone who pacified and organized the
    tribal warlords, replacing their hatred and feuds with constructive
    social mechanisms.
  - **The Dangerous Dress Time** - +20 Fortifications. All People must
    spend some portion of their childhood guarding the edges of the
    Island, keeping watch for danger. During this time, they must also
    try out a variety of dresses, wigs, and other stylings which are
    normally associated with specific genders. The People undergoing
    this process are considered to be more powerful, due to being
    on-edge and forgoing the comforts of even their own genders.
  - **Wedding Warriors** - +20 Fortifications. During every ceremony of
    marriage between two people, warriors from each family must fight
    each other (with nonlethal weapons). Challengers may also come and
    challenge anyone. Stabbing is not allowed unless a blood feud
    between two warriors is recognized.

## Strategic Turns

1.  Calculation Phase
2.  Island Events Phase
3.  Imperial Actions Phase
4.  Island Actions Phase

### Calculation Phase

#### 1\. Island Health

Sick Animals and Sick People above the Island Health rating are killed.

Healthy Animals and Healthy People above the Island Health number are
turned Sick.

#### 2\. Water System

Sick Animals and Sick People above the Water System rating are killed.

Healthy Animals and Healthy People above the Water System rating are
turned Sick.

#### 3\. Food System

Every 5 Healthy Animals provide 1 Food point during this phase.

Sick Animals and Sick People above the Food System rating are killed.

Healthy Animals and Healthy People above the Food System number are
turned Sick.

#### 4\. Shelter

Healthy Animals and Healthy People above the Shelter rating are turned
Sick.

#### 5\. Materials System

Every 100 Materials System matching to 100 Healthy People provides 1
Materials Power Action.

#### 6\. Knowledge Permanency

Every 100 Knowledge Permanency matching to 100 Healthy People provides 1
Knowledge Power Action.

#### 7\. Automation

Every 100 Automation matching to 100 Healthy People provides 1
Automation Power Action.

#### 8\. Fortification

Record the number of Animals and People who are not covered by
Fortification. These Animal and People can be enslaved or murdered by
the Empire before you are able to respond.

### Island Events Phase

### Imperial Actions Phase

Possible Imperial actions should make sense based on your Island’s
starting situation, and everything you have done which the imperials
were able to identify as coming from your island. If your island has
sufficient Fortifications, then the effectiveness of Imperial Actions
should be halved, or even cut to one-fifth. And of course, venturing
forth to attack the Imperials directly will certainly reduce the number
of actions they can do in a Strategic Turn.

Generally, the Imperials start with 1 action per Strategic Turn, then
escalate from there, with no limit to the maximum number of actions once
they start sending full Legions. Eventually you will have to face the
Legions head-on in battle and kill their highest-ranked soldiers and
generals.

Shifting the Island into the Blended Realm will prevent most Imperial
Actions, but they will still be able to use special auxilia to follow
you and attack you. It will also expose the Island to other conditions
that will take quite a long time to adapt to.

**Build Adtextus Banner**:

  - \-10 Island Health
  - An Imperial Senator conducts a ritual of life draining, then hammers
    an Adtextus Banner into the Island. Without sufficient
    Fortifications, no response is possible.

**Enslave People**:

  - \-5 Island Health
  - \-10 People
  - \-10 Knowledge Permanency
  - \-10 Automation
  - Auxilia or Legion Scouts quickly surround and grab people at night.
    Without sufficient Fortifications, no response is possible.

**Use Murder Squads**:

  - \-10 Island Health
  - \-10 Animals
  - \-10 Tribespeople
  - \-10 Knowledge Permanency
  - Auxilia with a reputation for murderousness are hired to land on the
    Island and do whatever they can. Without sufficient Fortifications,
    no response is possible.

**Divert River**:

  - \-10 Island Health
  - \-20 Water System
  - An Imperial Legion redirects a river so that it falls off the edge
    of the Island. This takes long enough that you can react to it, even
    without Fortifications. However, without sufficient Fortifications,
    you may not arrive until the Legion has started to pack up their
    digging tools.

**Salt the Earth**:

  - \-10 Island Health
  - \-20 Food System
  - An Imperial Legion marches across gardens and farmland on the
    Island, sewing salt and poison. This takes long enough that you can
    react to it, even without Fortifications. However, without
    sufficient Fortifications, you may not arrive until the Legion has
    salted at least half of their planned area.

**Burn Village**:

  - \-10 Island Health
  - \-5 Animals
  - \-5 People
  - \-10 Shelter
  - \-10 Materials System
  - \-10 Knowledge Permanency
  - \-10 Automation
  - An Imperial Legion forms a complete cordon around a village, and
    uses a combination of torches and burning arrows to destroy it all.
    This takes long enough that you can react to it, even without
    Fortifications. However, without sufficient Fortifications, you may
    not arrive until the fires have been set.

**Build Siege Engines**:

  - \-10 Island Health
  - \-20 Fortifications
  - An Imperial Legion builds and employs siege engines in order to
    shoot at the Island from a distance. This action cannot be
    interrupted unless you have external sky patrols, but it does result
    in the Legion having to hold still long enough for you to
    sally-forth or counterattack.

### Island Actions Phase

Each Player-Character can do one strategic action, of any kind.

There are also System Power Actions potentially obtained through the
Calculation Phase.

One out of every 100 people also have enough free time to do one Island
Development Action. The rest of the people are busy hunting, gathering,
harvesting, cooking, weaving, sewing, crafting, etc.

#### Internal

“Internal” covers all actions including and not limited to:

  - Journeying into a sealed part of the Island to help fight against
    physical manifestations of trauma
  - Receiving visitors from other Islands, and testing their strength
  - Dealing with misanthropes who try to dominate others
  - Learning something new from the Island, which requires a full
    internal journey or a long travel through an unknown area in order
    to comprehend
  - Playing with a new and unique creature who was born out of the
    Island
  - Processes of self-discipline and change which requires separation
    from the rest of the people of the Island

If this action type is chosen, then all Player-Characters should stick
together to do exactly one Internal action for the Strategic Turn.

#### External

“External” covers all actions including and not limited to:

  - Gathering lost fragments of the island which may contain important
    memories
  - Visiting other Islands, participating in their unique culture
  - Infiltrating the Empire to prepare for future battles
  - Doing battle against the Empire
  - Doing anything the Island would not approve of
  - Seeking out lost knowledge and wisdom
  - Shifting into the Blended Realm without the rest of the island

Just as with the “Internal” strategic action type, if this action type
is chosen, then all Player-Characters should stick together to do
exactly one External action for the Strategic Turn.

Particularly-long quests will naturally take multiple Strategic Turns.
For example, journeying across the world to request aid from a different
island, or deliver an artifact.

#### System Power Action

##### Materials Power Actions

Bolt-on Fortifications - +5 Fortifications

Bolt-on Shelter - +5 Shelter

Build Astrological Structure - +5 Knowledge Permanency

Build Water Filter - +5 Water System

Bury Materials - +5 Food System

##### Knowledge Power Actions

Emergency Life Link With Island - Change 10 Dead Animals or People (dead
from this turn) to Sick.

Hydrological Discussion With Island - +5 Water System

Nutritional Discussion With Island - +5 Food System

Structural Engineering - +5 Fortifications

Study Disease - Change 10 Sick Animals or People to Healthy

Write Down Island Memories - +5 Island Health

##### Automation Power Actions

Construction Machine - +5 Shelter

Harvesting Machine - +5 Food System

Measured Forge - +5 Materials System

Obstacle Mechanism - +5 Fortifications

Water Pump - +5 Water System

#### Island Development Actions

##### Inhabitants

Train Stray Animals - +10 Animals

Search For Refugees - +10 Tribespeople

Establish Imperial Style Family Estate - +20 Animals, +20 People, -50
Island Health

##### Environment

Environmental Healing - +10 Island Health

##### Water System

Develop Water System Sustainably - +10 Water System

Develop Water System in the Imperial Style - +20 Water System, -50
Island Health

Remove Irrigation - +20 Water System, -20 Food System

##### Food System

Develop Food System Sustainably - +10 Food System

Develop Food System in the Imperial Style - +20 Food System, -50
Environment

##### Shelter

Construct Shelter Sustainably - +10 Shelter

Construct Shelter in the Imperial Style - +20 Shelter, -50 Island Health

##### Materials System

Construct Materials System Sustainably - +10 Materials System

Construct Materials System in the Imperial Style - +20 Materials System,
-50 Island Health

##### Infrastructure

Construct Infrastructure Sustainably - +10 Infrastructure

Construct Infrastructure in the Imperial Style - +20 Infrastructure, -50
Environment

##### Knowledge Permanency

Teach Knowledge Permanency - +10 Knowledge Permanency (the whole tribe
benefits)

Imperial Tutoring Style - +1 Knowledge Permanency (only the wealthy and
powerful benefit)

##### Automation

Construct Automation Sustainably - +10 Automation

Construct Automation in the Imperial Style - +20 Automation, -50 Island
Health

##### Fortifications

Construct Fortifications - +10 Fortifications

##### Neighboring Islands

Trade Sustainable Land Management Practices - +5 Island Health to both
islands

Trade Sustainable Hydroengineering Practices - +5 Water System to both
islands

Trade Sustainable Agriculture Practices - +5 Food System to both islands

Trade Sustainable Housing Techniques - +5 Shelter to both islands

Trade Sustainable Metalworking Techniques - +5 Materials System to both
islands

Trade Educational Techniques - +5 Knowledge Permanency to both islands

Trade Automation Techniques - +5 Automation to both islands

Trade Anti-Imperial Tactics - +5 Fortifications to both islands

# 7\. Combat

Combat has no random elements except for:

  - Turn Order
  - Techniques that explicitly have a random component

So, once turn order is resolved, you should be able to calculate how the
rest of the entire combat round could go.

## Battle Escalation and Energy

**Battle Escalation** starts at 1. Then at the beginning of each combat
round, it increases by 1.

Every combatant’s **Energy** starts at 1. It can be recharged through
the **Charge Energy** action, as well as through other specific means.

## Turn Order

Each combatant rolls three ten-sided dice and orders them in hundreds
place, then tens place, then ones place. If using an electronic system
to do the dice, then use 1d1000. Then, each combatant adds their Level
to the result. The turn order starts with the highest result, and goes
down from there.

In the case of a tie, the combatant with the higher **Power Level** goes
first. If there is still a tie, then one of them calls heads-or-tails on
a coin toss.

This is one of the few times that dice are ever used in the game.

## Mapless Rows

In mapless combat, all combatants are in a specific **row** for their
team. Furthermore, the **front row** must have at least three
combatants. If a team’s **front row** somehow has fewer than three
combatants, then someone from another row is automatically pushed to the
front.

Furthermore, there cannot be any empty rows. Whichever row is not the
**front row** must at least start as the second row immediately behind
the front, then the third, and so on.

## Actions

Each combatant gets four **Action Points**, or APs for short. The
possible actions are:

  - **Attack** - 1 AP
  - **Change Armor** - 4 AP
  - **Change Weapon** - 2 AP
  - **Charge Energy** - 1 AP
  - **Defend** - Reserves 1 AP
  - **Face Forward** - 0 AP
  - **Grapple** - 2 AP
  - **Move** - 1 AP
  - **Perform Technique** - 1 AP (some techniques have different AP
    costs or reserve APs)
  - **Use Item** - 1 AP

### Attack

First, consider **Facing**. The side or diagonal corner that the
attacker hits is determined by drawing a line from the center of the
attacker’s square to the center of the target’s square.

  - If the attack is aimed at the target’s **sides**, not including the
    diagonal corners, then the target’s evasion is halved against the
    attack.
  - If the attack is aimed at the target’s **back**, including the two
    diagonal corners, then the target’s evasion is cut to 1/4th against
    the attack.

Then, compare the attacker’s accuracy to the target’s evasion:

  - If the attacker’s accuracy is less than the target’s evasion, then
    the target’s armor is applied a second time.
  - If the attacker’s accuracy is less than half of the target’s
    evasion, then the attack or technique misses.
  - If the attacker’s accuracy is double or higher than the target’s
    evasion, then the target’s armor is not applied, and the target is
    knocked back by 5 feet.

#### Mapless

You may spend **Maneuver** to target a **side** or **back**. The cost is
equal to 2 Maneuver to target a **side** or 4 maneuver to target the
**back**, plus 2 additional Maneuver for each row away from the Front
Row from both yourself and the enemy. For example, if you are in the
second row, and the enemy is also in the second row, then the total cost
is 6 Maneuver to target the side and 8 Maneuver to target the back.

The target can spend **Maneuver** to cancel out your own **Maneuver**
spending.

### Change Armor

Changes which type of armor you are using.

You can also roleplay that your armor or body transforms, but this must
still take 4 APs.

### Change Weapon

Changes what you have in your hands.

You can also roleplay that your weapon can be used in different ways or
has different forms, but this must still take 2 APs.

### Charge Energy

The Charge Energy action restores Energy to yourself, equal to the
Battle Escalation number.

### Defend

The Defend action reserves 1 AP in order to keep your Physical Evasion,
Magical Evasion and Magical Armor up. Without reserving at least one
Defend, these stats fall down to equalling your Power Level instead.

Additional APs reserved for Defend will each add an amount to your
Physical Evasion, Physical Armor, Magical Evasion, and Magical Armor
equal to half of their respective base ratings.

### Face Forward

This action makes you face one of the four directions. It costs 0 AP,
but you cannot do it outside of your turn, so choose carefully.

In theory, some combatants may twirl around a million times before
ending their turn, although there is no practical purpose to doing so.

### Grapple

Similar to Attack, except the range is always 5 feet, the amount of
damage is always equal to 1/10th of the target’s Maximum Health, and a
successful action results in the target being moved 5 feet back. The
damage ignores Physical Armor.

Consequently, even the most well-armored soldiers must beware grapplers.

#### Mapless

This removes 2 Maneuver from the target.

### Move

The standard movement type is Foot, providing 20 feet of horizontal
movement per Move Action. Maximum upwards jump is 2 feet. Maximum
horizontal jump is 5 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 4 feet. There are
other movement types, traits, statuses, etc. that can change this.

Horizontal jumps count against your horizontal movement. For example,
jumping across a 5-foot gap counts as using 5 feet of horizontal
movement.

Vertical jumps do not count against horizontal movement. For example,
moving into a 5-foot-square that is 5 feet lower in elevation is only
considered to be 5 feet of horizontal movement.

#### Mapless

This allows you to change rows within your team, and also generates
Maneuver for the current round. The amount of Maneuver gained is usually
4, but is then further modified by your movement type.

### Perform Technique

Most techniques only take 1 AP, and have other costs or limitations to
compensate. Some techniques, however, explicitly state that they take 2
or more AP, or otherwise reserve AP.

Reactions reserve AP, but can only be triggered once until your next
turn. However, you can reserve multiple of the same reaction.

### Use Item

Item usage generally has a range of five feet, i.e. targeting someone in
a side-adjacent square.

## Movement Types

  - **Foot** - The base movement type. 20 feet of horizontal movement
    per Move Action. Maximum upwards jump is 2 feet. Maximum horizontal
    jump is 5 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 4 feet. *Mapless:
    Generates 4 Maneuver*
  - **Hover I** - You are constantly floating up to 1 foot above the
    terrain. Falling damage is halved. Maximum horizontal jump is 10
    feet. Maximum downwards jump is 8 feet.
      - **Hover II** - You are constantly floating up to 2 feet above
        the terrain. Falling damage is halved. Maximum horizontal jump
        is 15 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 16 feet.
      - **Hover III** - You are constantly floating up to 3 feet above
        the terrain. Falling damage is halved. Maximum horizontal jump
        is 20 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 24 feet.
      - **Hover IV** - You are constantly floating up to 4 feet above
        the terrain. Falling damage is halved. Maximum horizontal jump
        is 30 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 32 feet.
  - **Jump I** - Maximum upwards jump is 4 feet. Maximum horizontal jump
    is 10 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 6 feet. *Mapless: Generates 1
    additional Maneuver*
      - **Jump II** - Maximum upwards jump is 6 feet. Maximum horizontal
        jump is 15 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 8 feet. *Mapless:
        Generates 2 additional Maneuver*
      - **Jump III** - Maximum upwards jump is 8 feet. Maximum
        horizontal jump is 20 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 10 feet.
        *Mapless: Generates 3 additional Maneuver*
      - **Jump IV** - Maximum upwards jump is 10 feet. Maximum
        horizontal jump is 30 feet. Maximum downwards jump is 12 feet.
        *Mapless: Generates 4 additional Maneuver*
  - **Mudwalking** - Move on top of mud, swamp, and mold as if it were
    normal. Not affected by swamp, mold, and other such terrain.
  - **Swiftfoot I** - 25 feet of horizontal movement per Move Action.
    *Mapless: Generates 1 additional Maneuver*
      - **Swiftfoot II** - 30 feet of horizontal movement per Move
        Action. *Mapless: Generates 2 additional Maneuver*
      - **Swiftfoot III** - 35 feet of horizontal movement per Move
        Action. *Mapless: Generates 3 additional Maneuver*
      - **Swiftfoot IV** - 40 feet of horizontal movement per Move
        Action. *Mapless: Generates 4 additional Maneuver*
  - **Swimming I** - Maximum of 10 feet of horizontal movement through
    water. Cannot be used at the same time as Waterwalking or Hover.
      - **Swimming II** - Maximum of 15 feet of horizontal movement
        through water. Cannot be used at the same time as Waterwalking
        or Hover.
      - **Swimming III** - Maximum of 20 feet of horizontal movement
        through water. Cannot be used at the same time as Waterwalking
        or Hover.
      - **Swimming IV** - No limit to horizontal movement through water.
        Cannot be used at the same time as Waterwalking or Hover.
  - **Waterwalking** - Move and stand on top of water as if it were
    normal. Cannot be used at the same time as Swimming.
  - **Winged I** - Falling damage is halved. Requires 2 Move Actions to
    move with this type, in which case you get 40 feet of horizontal
    movement, maximum upwards jump of 6 feet, maximum horizontal jump of
    15 feet, and maximum downwards jump of 8 feet. *Mapless: Generates 9
    Maneuver*
      - **Winged II** - Falling damage is halved. Requires 2 Move
        Actions to move with this type, in which case you get 50 feet of
        horizontal movement, maximum upwards jump of 10 feet, maximum
        horizontal jump of 20 feet, and maximum downwards jump of 12
        feet. *Mapless: Generates 12 Maneuver*
      - **Winged III** - Falling damage is halved. Requires 2 Move
        Actions to move with this type, in which case you get 60 feet of
        horizontal movement, maximum upwards jump of 14 feet, maximum
        horizontal jump of 25 feet, and maximum downwards jump of 16
        feet. *Mapless: Generates 15 Maneuver*
      - **Winged IV** - Falling damage is halved. Requires 2 Move
        Actions to move with this type, in which case you get 80 feet of
        horizontal movement, maximum upwards jump of 20 feet, maximum
        horizontal jump of 40 feet, and maximum downwards jump of 30
        feet. *Mapless: Generates 18 Maneuver*
  - **Teleport I** - Falling damage is halved. You can move to any
    position you see within 10 feet. Cannot be used at the same time as
    any other movement type. *Mapless: Generates 4 Maneuver*
      - **Teleport II** - Falling damage is halved. You can move to any
        position you see within 15 feet. Cannot be used at the same time
        as any other movement type. *Mapless: Generates 5 Maneuver*
      - **Teleport III** - Falling damage is halved. You can move to any
        position you see within 20 feet. Cannot be used at the same time
        as any other movement type. *Mapless: Generates 6 Maneuver*
      - **Teleport IV** - Falling damage is halved. You can move to any
        position you see within 30 feet. Cannot be used at the same time
        as any other movement type. *Mapless: Generates 8 Maneuver*

## Special Circumstances

Falling damage is equal to 2 points for each foot beyond your maximum
downwards jump distance. Falling off the edge of a flying Island is
quite a lot of damage. Note that various movement types also state that
they halve falling damage. With multiple such movement types, each one
further halves the remaining falling damage, so it can be cut to 1/4th,
1/8th, 1/16th, and so on.

**Example 1:** A combatant is pushed by 5 feet, and ends up falling 20
feet. Their maximum downwards jump is 4 feet. So they take 16 \* 2, or
32, points of falling damage. This is lethal to Power Level 1 combatants
without some way to halve it, and still hurts quite a lot to more
powerful combatants.

## Status Conditions

  - **Air Tornado Upper** - When you cause more than 1 damage with an
    Unarmed attack or technique, and your Magical Accuracy is greater
    than 1.5x the target’s Magical Evasion, you cause the target to spin
    around and change facing to a direction of your choice.
      - Mapless: You cause the target to lose 2 Maneuver.
  - **Airyspeedy** - Horizontal movement speed increased by 10 feet. Add
    half your Power Level to your Physical Evasion.
      - Mapless: You gain 2 additional Maneuver per Move action.
  - **Babbling** - Unable to do actions that require speaking, or
    spending Energy. Removed whenever you take Dark elemental damage.
  - **Bleeding** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your Maximum
    Health per status phase. Removed whenever you gain Health.
  - **Blinded** - Physical Accuracy and Physical Evasion are halved.
    Cannot do anything requiring line-of-sight. Removed whenever you
    take Dark elemental damage. Can be removed by spending all action
    points to wipe your eyes.
  - **Blood Poisoning** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 25% of your
    Maximum Health per status phase. Removed whenever you take Moon
    elemental damage.
  - **Buried** - Physical Evasion and Physical Power are halved.
    Horizontal movement is halved. Removed whenever you take Air
    elemental damage. Can be removed by spending all action points to
    dig yourself out.
      - Mapless: The amount of Maneuver you gain from Move actions is
        halved.
  - **Burning** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your Maximum
    Health per status phase. Removed whenever you take Water elemental
    damage. Can be removed by spending all action points to stop, drop,
    and roll.
  - **Chilled** - Physical Armor and Magical Armor are halved. Cannot
    jump. Removed whenever you take Fire elemental damage. Can be
    removed by spending all action points to jump up and down and warm
    yourself up.
  - **Crystal Diffusion Fists** - When you cause at least 4 damage with
    an Unarmed attack or technique, and your Magical Accuracy is greater
    than 1.5x the target’s Magical Evasion, 1/4th of your damage is
    additionally dealt to the target’s Energy.
  - **Crystalbarrier** - All melee and reach attacks aimed at you will
    cause the attacker to get the Bleeding status. Add your Power Level
    to your Physical Armor.
  - **Dark Force Ark** - When you cause more than 1 damage with an
    Unarmed attack or technique, you and all square-side-adjacent allies
    regain 1 Energy.
      - Mapless: All allies in your row
  - **Dehydration** - Physical Power is zero. Removed whenever you take
    Water elemental damage.
  - **Earth Stone Pillar Body** - You cannot be moved or turned around
    unwillingly. Your Physical Armor is increased by an amount equal to
    half of your Power Level.
      - Mapless: You cannot lose Maneuver from enemy actions.
  - **Elemental Armor Coating: <Specific>** - Requires that you use
    armor and/or a shield. Incoming damage from the specified element is
    halved. The most recent application of this status removes all
    previous applications.
  - **Elemental Armor Resin: <Specific>** - Requires that you use armor
    and/or a shield. Incoming damage from the specified element is
    nullified. If this occurs, then one stack of this status is also
    removed during the status phase. The most recent application of this
    status removes all previous applications.
  - **Elemental Charge Feedback: <Specific>** - All element charges of
    the specified element instead cause you to lose health, then the
    charges disappear. The amount is 10% of your Maximum Health for each
    charge. This includes all charges you have when the status is first
    caused, and all charges you gain while having this status. The most
    recent application of this status removes all previous applications.
  - **Elemental Resistance: <Specific>** - Incoming damage from the
    specified element is halved, after taking armor into account. For
    example, if you have the Elemental Resistance: Fire status, you take
    30 physical Fire damage, and you have 20 Physical Armor, then you
    take 5 damage to your Health. The most recent application of this
    status removes all previous applications. Note that Elemental Armor
    Coating applies before subtracting armor from the damage, while
    Elemental Resistance applies after, so having both statuses at the
    same time is a good combination if the enemy is only capable of one
    type of elemental damage.
  - **Elemental Sticky Bomb: <Specific>** - You take 1 elemental damage
    of the specific element, per status phase. Multiple sticky bombs can
    stack. Thankfully they have finite durations.
  - **Elemental Weakness: <Specific>** - Incoming damage from the
    specified element bypasses your armor. The most recent application
    of this status removes all previous applications.
  - **Elemental Weapon Coating: <Specific>** - All of your weapons have
    their damage type changed to be of the specified element. The most
    recent application of this status removes all previous applications.
  - **Elemental Weapon Resin: <Specific>** - All of your weapons have
    their damage type changed to be of the specified element. They also
    add your Power Level to the damage. If the damage boost occurs, then
    one stack of this status is removed during the status phase. The
    most recent application of this status removes all previous
    applications. If you have both Elemental Weapon Coating and
    Elemental Weapon Resin statuses, then the Resin effect supercedes
    the Coating effect until the Resin wears off, after which the
    Coating will take over.
  - **Entombed** - Unable to move. Physical Evasion is zero. Removed
    whenever you take Air elemental damage.
  - **Fire Wheel Sprinting** - Your horizontal movement is increased by
    10 feet. Every enemy who you move past in square-side contact
    receives an amount of Fire damage equal to 1/10th of your Magical
    Power, ignoring Magical Armor and Magical Evasion.
      - Mapless: You gain 2 additional Maneuver from Move actions. You
        cause damage to one enemy per 2 Maneuver spent to target an
        enemy’s flank or rear.
  - **Fireaura** - You cause fire damage to all adjacent enemies during
    the status phase, as if it had been done by the Burning status. Add
    your Power Level to your Magical Armor.
      - Mapless: Front Row of enemies.
  - **Fluidmotion** - You move through liquids as if it were normal
    ground. Maximum downwards jump distance is increased by 20 feet. You
    can move upwards through liquids, such as waterfalls, without using
    up any upwards jump.
  - **Forgetfulness** - Lose an amount of Energy equal to 25% of your
    Maximum Energy per status phase. Removed whenever you take Light
    elemental damage.
  - **Fragility** - Physical Armor is zero. Removed whenever you take
    magical damage. Can be removed by spending all action points to
    recollect yourself.
  - **Light Shining Finger** - 1/10th of all damage from your Unarmed
    attacks and techniques is dealt to all enemies who are
    square-side-adjacent to your target, ignoring Evasion and Armor.
      - Mapless: Front Row of enemies.
  - **Melting** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your Maximum
    Health per status phase. Physical Armor and Magical Armor are
    halved. Removed whenever you take Water elemental damage.
  - **Mindmaze** - Magical Accuracy and Magical Evasion are halved. Can
    be removed by spending all action points to clear your mind.
  - **Moon Madness** - You are only able to do unarmed attacks and
    techniques. Removed whenever you take Wood elemental damage.
  - **Moon Night-Eye** - Your Physical Accuracy, Magical Accuracy and
    Magical Evasion are increased by an amount equal to half of your
    Power Level.
  - **Overheat** - You take an amount of damage equal to 10% of your
    Maximum Health for each Action Point you use. When you do a Charge
    action, you furthermore take damage equal to double the amount of
    Energy you gained. One stack of Overheat is removed during the
    status phase.
  - **Preserving Compress** - You do not take damage from status
    conditions.
  - **Recharging** - Regain an amount of Energy equal to 10% of your
    Maximum Energy per status phase.
  - **Regenerating** - Regain an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
    Maximum Health per status phase.
  - **Repulsed Weapon** - You cannot use your weapon. This status
    condition is always removed during the status phase.
  - **Resuscitate** - Remove one stack of Resuscitate during the status
    phase. When the final stack of the Resuscitate status is removed,
    you are revived with 1 Health.
  - **Scent Tracked** - Enemies gain a bonus of half their Power Level
    to Physical Accuracy against you.
  - **Shadowconcealed** - Add your Level to your Physical Evasion and
    Magical Evasion.
  - **Shattered** - All Armor is halved. Multiple stacks of Shattered do
    not cause additional effects. One stack of Shattered is removed
    during the status phase.
  - **Shininghead** - Add your Power Level to your Evasion and Armor
    against all line-of-sight and ranged techniques.
  - **Shocked** - Magical Power and Magical Armor are halved. Removed
    whenever you take Earth elemental damage. Can be removed by spending
    all action points to breathe and calm down from the shock.
  - **Stonehide** - Add your Power Level to your Physical Armor. For all
    melee and reach attacks against you, if your Magical Accuracy is
    higher than the attacker’s Magical Evasion, then the attacker gets
    the Repulsed Weapon status condition.
  - **Stunned** - All Accuracy and Evasion are halved. Multiple stacks
    of Stunned do not cause additional effects. One stack of Stunned is
    removed during the status phase.
  - **Suffocation** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 10% of your
    Maximum Health per status phase. Horizontal movement is limited to 5
    feet. Removed whenever you take Earth elemental damage.
  - **Thorns** - Whenever you do damage, you lose an amount of Health
    equal to 10% of your Maximum Health. One stack of Thorns is removed
    during the status phase.
  - **Venom** - Lose an amount of Health equal to 5% of your Maximum
    Health per status phase. Lose an amount of Energy equal to 5% of
    your Maximum Energy per status phase.
  - **Water Flow Returning Force** - Every time you take more than 1
    damage from an enemy who is square-side-adjacent, and your Magical
    Evasion is greater than 1.5x that enemy’s Magical Accuracy, you
    immediately do an Unarmed attack against that enemy. This does not
    use APs and occurs immediately after you took the damage, thus
    possibly preventing the enemy from using the rest of their APs
    depending on circumstances.
      - Mapless: Against an enemy in the Front Row.
  - **Wood Tree Of Life** - Every time you regain Health, 1/4th of that
    regain is additionally done to all square-side-adjacent allies.
      - Mapless: Allies in the same row.

# 8\. World Details

## True Allies

Eventually, the Empire will commit more and more forces to destroying
your Island, until you are overwhelmed. Perhaps you can bet on the
Empire overcommitting and collapsing, but that would not happen until
many more such battles, and it would leave a continental state that
still has the Imperial Adtextus, as well as your own Island ravaged
beyond repair. Therefore, you can expect to be spending a considerable
amount of time gathering allies to stretch the Empire thinner, and
ultimately, take the fight back to the continent.

### Other Sky Islands

Other Sky Islands have very different customs, traditions, languages,
people, plants, and possibly even land types. Despite these differences,
they will ally with any who consistently oppose the Empire.

They may even have a better understanding of how to take care of certain
types of people and animals than you do. They will recognize if you stop
and listen, or if you merely impose your own ways.

### Ocean Islands

Most Ocean Islands have been thoroughly depleted by the Empire, and have
been reduced to naval and airship bases. But if someone were to defeat
the Imperial presence on these islands, then they would be open to new
ideas that could sustain life. The people tend to need extra education
on how to live without hierarchy or money, but the results speak for
themselves.

### Slave Camps

Slave Camps are mostly populated by kidnapped Islanders, although they
also have Imperials who failed all other “correctional” processes. The
Empire relies so much on slave labor that if a sufficient number of
camps rebelled at the same time, the war machine could be damaged or
even forced to retreat. The camps will need weapons, armor, supplies and
other assistance in order to overthrow their masters. Furthermore, if
they are not taught how to live without money or hierarchy, then they
may fall under the sway of other Senators rather than actually being
freed.

## Temporary Allies

All possible allies described here are explicitly “temporary”. They will
inevitably find excuses to cease helping you for some reason or another.

### Unpaid Legions

They object to the fact that the Patrician class controls them, but they
think everything else about the Empire and Adtextus are fine. They
merely want to ensure that the Senate is abolished and the Emperor is
always a representative of the Legions. Getting an Unpaid Legion to
realize that anything else is wrong is very difficult, since they are
still able to use their Imperial equipment, training, and the
life-draining power of the Adtextus to feel good about dominating
others. They may openly state that they are allied with you in order to
gain trust with other Islands, or to gain access to your food and water,
but they will always criticize people who do not fit their version of
the Adtextus.

### Exoticist Senators

These Senators think the Adtextus is too destructive to other cultures,
but they see nothing wrong with the Empire continuing to take over
everything. They merely want to change the Adtextus, or put Islands into
Density Camps to be gawked at.

They will give you Imperial food and money to entertain them, or even
small pieces of land on their continent, but nothing else. They
especially will not play their power games to advance your interests, as
that would be “uncivil”, despite the fact that they already play their
power games all the time to enrich themselves in other ways. If you tell
them that perhaps they should think of you as thinking living beings,
then they will get angry and call you “ungrateful”.

### Other Superpowers

The other superpowers are nowhere near your Island, and aspire to take
over the world themselves. What they lack in the life-draining Adtextus
and the brutality of the Legions, they make up for in their own ways.
For example, one superpower might still have a strictly hierarchical
ideology magic that causes harm, but it may use a lot more human blood
sacrifice and cause a lot less damage to the land. Another superpower
might allow Islands to retain their culture, but the Islands are
obligated to give their most strong and beautiful people to suffer
indignities until they die of pain and despair.

## The Empire

### The Imperial Adtextus

The Imperial Adtextus has been engineered over time to maintain a strict
and inflexible hierarchical structure. Its driving principles are
inherently wrong. All attempts to add new words to it will only result
in the new words being corrupted by those principles. Even before the
Adtextus was codified, the Empire was still relying heavily on
life-draining magic. But now it has grown into its own beast, which not
even Emperors can control.

It is the foundation for the magic that the Empire uses to enforce its
own existence. It grants Imperials the ability to drain energy from
others, and absorbs elemental power to strengthen buildings, weapons,
and armor. There is nothing mysterious or secret about it. All Imperial
scholars know exactly when it was founded, how, and by whom. In fact, it
metes out the Imperial sense of time itself, down to the smallest
fractions of a second. The first scholars who wrote it down are revered
as great philosophers, although still mortal.

It is spread through the following means:

  - Monuments to the Empire, with portions of the Adtextus written upon
    them. These monuments are activated with religious rituals.
  - Orators constantly reciting the Adtextus in public. Their own life
    force is burned in order to perform energy transfers on all who can
    hear them.
  - Slaves having their hearts ripped out in religious rituals. Their
    life force is transferred to the shared energy field of the
    Adtextus.
  - Patricians organizing their estates in accordance with the Adtextus.
    The Adtextus then shoots magical effects at the estates to
    accelerate the energy transfers.

Examples of the Adtextus:

  - Correct Order - Something must always be on top, taking from
    everything under it. Any surplus must be used to reinforce and
    expand this hierarchy. This is the foundational principle of the
    Adtextus, which all other Imperial magic relies on. If this
    principle were altered or removed, then all current Imperial magic
    would cease to function.
  - Center of the Universe - The Imperial Palace, which the Emperor is
    required to administrate from. Before the Adtextus was established,
    it was called the “Middle House”.
  - Bio Cutting Resource - Person in the military. It is expected that
    all people gendered male who are ages 15 to 35 will serve in the
    military. Those who do not are considered weak, and relegated to the
    lowest work possible. Those who prove themselves may have a chance
    to become a proper Legionary, and thereby gain land and slaves at
    the end of their service. In fact much Imperial conquest is solely
    for the purpose of delivering these promises to their Legions. The
    Adtextus itself is used to repress the minds of those who are
    unpaid, and consequently would consider desertion or even rebellion,
    although the schemes of the Patricians may exploit such disgruntled
    Legions.
  - Dirt Cutting Resource - Person who works outside the house and is
    not in the military. All people gendered male who are age 36 or
    older are expected to work until death. Those who were not fortunate
    enough to be a Legionary and/or get paid must wander around,
    constantly begging for work or even food. The Adtextus itself tries
    to twist their minds towards volunteering for slavery, making them
    believe that at least then they would have consistent food and
    drink.
  - Bio Assembly Resource - A person gendered woman who conforms to
    precise standards of appearance, and who has been proven to have
    birthed children. Women are legally owned by their fathers until
    they are sold to their husbands. Violence against women is only
    considered harmful so far as it affects the man’s property. A few
    women have played the power games at the Patrician level, although
    the Adtextus ensures they are perceived as evil witches and rewrites
    all imperial records of their deeds.
  - Bio Consumption Resources - A narrowly-defined set of plants,
    animals, and drinks that are considered high-class imperial food.
    All other food is defined as unclean and disgusting. Of course, the
    plants and animals only thrive within specific regions, and do
    poorly in others, causing the Empire to consider those other regions
    barren wastes. Imperial agricultural practices also deplete the soil
    and cause it to erode within decades, so the heartlands of the
    Empire are already barren by their definition. The heartlands only
    produce grain and wine today because of life energy drained from
    slaves - and it takes the lives of more and more slaves each year to
    maintain the current mode of production.
  - Unweighted Warrior - A term that was added by Emperor Decimus, in an
    effort to prevent the Adtextus from killing the St’los Tribe. So,
    instead of killing the tribe, it just mutated them into their
    current infamous forms. Emperor Decimus had to issue proclamations
    that the St’los Tribe was always that way, and that it was a mistake
    to take them on as military auxiliaries in the first place. Then he
    ordered the tribe to be decimated, for their failure to live up to
    expectations.
  - Deep Grass - A term that was added by Emperor Livius, in an effort
    to allow crops that would grow in Yurk Province without destroying
    the topsoil. But, due to the way the Adtextus was designed, it
    changed the grass itself to deplete the soil rather than replenish
    it, because the Adtextus does not allow anything from the Empire to
    give back to anything else. Emperor Livius proceeded to have many of
    his scholars publicly-executed for their failure, because the
    Adtextus only allows punishment to flow downwards.

### The Emperor

If the **Game Master** does not have enough time to write out who the
Emperor is - or if the **Game Master** position is rotating - then roll
a cubic die for a quick idea:

1.  The Emperor is bedridden and underweight, with biomechanical
    machinery and tubes sticking into him. A large biomechanical heart
    is behind him in his throne room, constantly beating with unnatural
    sounds, to keep the Emperor alive. The doors of the Imperial Palace
    are more like ventricles. Stretchy pulsing tubes of dark-red fluid
    are strewn across the walls and ceilings. As the Sky Islands bring
    the war to the Imperial Palace, the Emperor futilely whimpers, “How
    dare you harm me\! A god\!” and activates the self-destruct sequence
    of the entire continent. Now the Sky Islands and their inhabitants
    must use everything they have learned from the war to fly away and
    escape the explosion. Every sacrifice, every loss, every fallen
    comrade, every hard lesson, everything is put to use.
2.  The Emperor is impossibly young, having extended his life by
    hundreds of years through draining the life force of his greatest
    servants. He leads his Legions in the final battle, sallying forth
    from the Imperial Palace. He moves with impossible grace and cleaves
    multiple foes with one swordstroke. He is so powerful that he kills
    at least one Player Character. When the remaining Player Characters
    finally manage to inflict damage to him, his face is irreparably
    scarred, and he goes berserk. Once defeated, the souls of those
    drained explode out of his body and return to their original
    destinations. He rapidly decays into skin and bones, croaking “This
    is impossible\!” As he falls, the rest of the Empire realizes that
    it too will suffer this fate if it continues to stand and fight.
3.  There is no current Emperor. All previous public appearances of the
    alleged current Emperor were actually a magical illusion. In
    reality, the decisions have been made by the preserved brains of all
    previous Emperors, stuck in a gigantic machine that speaks with a
    booming voice. The machine’s casing is made of the original steles,
    tablets and monuments upon which the first Adtextus was inscribed.
    The machine has enough magical power to be threatening to anyone who
    tries to get close enough to attack it. Once it is finally
    destroyed, all Imperials around the World are suddenly stricken with
    the guilt of all they have done and what they have supported. Some
    Imperials would rather kill themselves than have to live as equals
    with Islanders, let alone face any justice.
4.  The Emperor and his Guard are cowardly mortals who flee to another
    continent before the Sky Islands begin to threaten the Imperial
    Palace. In the other superficial nations, they serve as advisors in
    the establishment of exploitative systems, especially military ones.
    So the fight must continue, but at least next time, the Sky Islands
    know how to break an Empire, and how to root out exploiters.
5.  The Emperor and Senate see that they are losing the conventional
    war. They decide to undo the ancient magical seals that keep the
    Destroyers of the Ancients at bay. The Destroyers are hungry, and
    start their unsealing by devouring the Emperor and the Senate. Once
    they emerge from the Imperial Palace, chewing on any Guards who
    tried to fight them, the Sky Islands quake with rage and sorrow at
    seeing these horrific bio-engineered beasts who ruined the World
    long ago. The Destroyers demonstrate their power to a new generation
    by turning parts of the Imperial Continent into burning wasteland,
    while severing other parts and casting them off into the ocean. This
    time, though, the Player Characters can fight the Destroyers and
    kill them for good.
6.  The Emperor makes his final declaration: “Our supremacy shall never
    be challenged\!” Then he unleashes the final power of the Adtextus,
    which was previously a secret held by him and the Senate. All
    Imperials who honestly believe in their supremacy, who refuse to
    change their ways, who sought out power over others using the
    Adtextus, are melted into flesh blobs and sucked towards the
    Imperial Palace, where they merge with the Emperor to form a
    gigantic angel-winged creature. The remaining Imperials see that the
    Sky Islands were right the whole time - this grotesque creature is
    the natural conclusion of an exploitative system. The creature must
    be fought at different locations on its body, until it finally
    falls.

## Intentionally Unanswered Questions

Who is the current Emperor? Is this person putting any effort whatsoever
into reforming the Empire or modifying the Adtextus? But even if they
did put in such effort, the Adtextus itself has a foundation that would
only allow the Emperor to change the flavor or speed of various
processes. Any Emperor who would destroy the Adtextus must accept that
unless the Imperials themselves switch to a different way of life, they
will surely die from the removal of the Adtextus.

Who are the St’los Tribe? What horrific fate befell them as a result of
being classified as “Unweighted Warriors”? Are they anywhere near your
Island?

What is Yurk Province? How is it doing after the failed experiment with
Deep Grass? Is it anywhere near your own Island? Who were the people who
used to live in it, or who currently survive in it?

Is there any kind of grand civilization in the Blended Realm? If so,
then what would be their aims towards the solid world?

Is the Empire actually close to division and collapse? If so, then are
the other Islands looking to conquer yours? Will they establish an
Adtextus of their own to just make another evil regime with their own
special characteristics? Perhaps the dreaded Savage Wolf Tribe could be
the one to overthrow the Empire, and replace it with raw violence all
the time?

# 9\. Pre-Made Allies

## Animals

### Bear

Species of bears who were, for whatever reason, not granted the ability
to speak by your Island.

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 30 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Unarmored = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3.5)
  - Physical Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored
  - Iron Fist IV
  - Swimming I
  - Bear Maul - 10 energy - Grapple action that is immediately followed
    up by a barehanded attack.

### Birdhorse

Birdhorses are emu-shaped birds who are large and strong enough to be
ridden while still being able to run and fly. Their legs and necks are
considerably thicker than most other emu-shaped birds. They like running
and flying freely across open areas, and dislike cramped spaces. They
are colored according to their elemental specializations, which are
fully random and seem to have no influence from their parents.

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 30 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Unarmored = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Barehanded = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored
  - Flying IV
  - Swiftfoot IV
  - Random Elemental Specialization
  - Birdhorse Cure - 5 energy - Restores Health to a
    square-side-adjacent ally or to their allied rider, equal to half of
    their Magical Power.
  - Power Peck - 10 energy - Barehanded attack that ignores Physical
    Armor. The damage is set to be of the same element as the
    Birdhorse’s specialization.

### Heresy Dragon

Heresy Dragons started out as bioweapons from an ancient age. All
surviving Heresy Dragons have long since shaken off their programming,
and now work for anyone who demonstrates kindness towards Island
creatures. They are angered by any mistreatment of animals, especially
Imperial practices, and constantly regain 1 Energy per status phase
while angry. They are large enough to be ridden and still fly. According
to the Islands, the Heresy Dragons know things that even the Islands do
not, but they can only interface with ancient technology that predates
the devastation of the continents, so they take their secrets to their
graves.

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
      - Barehanded = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Unarmored = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Barehanded = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Armor = 15 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored (natural armor is already factored into Physical Armor
        stat)
  - Flying IV
  - Homing Lasers - 10 energy - Ranged magical technique with halved
    Magical Power but doubled Magical Accuracy. This technique has 2
    lasers, plus one laser for every 10th Power Level. For example, at
    Power Level 25, this technique has 4 lasers. Each laser can be aimed
    at a different target, or the same target, or any mixture. If lasers
    are combined to aim at one target, then they become a single laser
    with more Magical Power.
  - Berserk Lasers - 60 energy - Magical technique that targets all
    enemies in the current battle. This includes large-scale battles
    with thousands of combatants on each side. Uses magical stats and is
    opposed by magical stats.

### Salt Mouse

Although they cannot send their thoughts towards the Island, they can
still receive thoughts back from the Island. They watch and guard all
salty marshes and swamps at night.

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Unarmored = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Barehanded = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored
  - Swiftfoot IV
  - Swimming IV
  - Sensitive Ears - Salt Mice are under the effect of Animal Speaker
    Auras from double the aura radius. For example, they are affected by
    Animal Speaker I from 10 feet away (2 squares away).

### Sky Jellyfish

It is believed that they do not have a nervous system. Despite this,
they still somehow seem to have an affinity for those who are in harmony
with their Islands, and attack any who would try to harm the Islands.

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Magical Weapon = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Magic Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Magical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Technique = 20 + (Power Level \* 3.25)
      - Melee = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.75)
      - Ranged = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Magical Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Magic Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Gear:
      - 2-Handed Magical Weapon
      - Magic Armor
  - Hover IV
  - Random Elemental Specialization
  - Energy Sting - 5 energy - Whips out a tentacle at a
    square-side-adjacent enemy, zapping them for 1.5x elemental damage.
    Uses magical stats and is opposed by magical stats.
  - Energy Zap - 5 energy - Shoots an elemental beam out up to 15 feet
    away in a straight line, targeting all enemies in the line. Uses
    magical stats and is opposed by magical stats.

# 10\. Pre-Made Blended Realm Creatures

# 11\. Pre-Made Enemies

## T1 Recruit

### Bandager Slave

Bandagers are trained to heal the battle wounds of other Imperials, and
to respect authority. They are selected from slaves who appear to be the
most susceptible to brainwashing. They must also follow up each healing
action by licking the boots of their masters.

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 30 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Light Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Melee = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Ranged = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Gear:
      - 1-Handed Melee Weapon
      - 1-Handed Ranged Weapon
      - Light Armor
  - Bandaging - 3 energy - Restores Health to a square-side-adjacent
    target, equal to half of the Bandager Slave’s Magical Power.

### Gladiator Initiate

New Gladiators who exhibit the strongest desire to kill are taken from
the Coliseum and sent as expendable soldiers to attack Sky Islands.

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 30 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Light Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Weapon = 20 + (Power Level \* 3.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - 2-Handed Melee Weapon
      - Light Armor
  - Flashy Strike - 4 energy - Melee attack with half Physical Accuracy
    but double damage.
  - Shoulder Check - 4 energy - Melee attack with double Physical
    Accuracy but half damage.

### Misanthrope Initiate

Adherents of Misanthropy volunteer to help invade Sky Islands and plant
banners of the Imperial Adtextus.

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Magic Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Magical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Technique = 20 + (Power Level \* 3.25)
      - Melee = 10 + (Power Level \* 2.75)
      - Ranged = 10 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Magic Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Gear:
      - 2-Handed Magic Weapon
      - Magic Armor
  - Random Element Specialization
  - Elemental Energy Techs

### Legion Recruit

These soldiers join with the promise of receiving land, salt, and wives
after twenty years of service. They are drilled to be willing to kill,
told all sorts of horrible things about Sky Islanders, and shipped off.

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Shield = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Heavy Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Shield = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Heavy Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Gear:
      - 1-Handed Reach Weapon
      - Shield
      - Heavy Armor
  - Shield Wall II
  - Spear Wall II
  - Pilum - 2 energy - Throw weapon up to 30 feet away, with double
    Physical Accuracy

### Manipulated Corpse

Slaves who were starved to death in a mass murder ritual, but denied
eternal rest. They can still feel echoes of their life. The Empire
screws magical bolts into their skulls to prevent them from realizing
what their condition truly is.

  - Undead
  - Maximum Health = 40 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Unarmored = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Weapon = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - 1-Handed Melee Weapon
      - Unarmored
  - Venomous Attacks - All attacks that do more than 1 damage also add a
    stack of the Venom status condition.

### Starved Dog

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 40 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Unarmored = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Swiftfoot II
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored
  - Maul - 5 energy - Grapple, then barehanded attack

### Starved Rooster

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Unarmored = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Barehanded = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored
  - Swiftfoot I
  - Winged I
  - Chicken Scratch - 5 energy - Barehanded attack two times

## T2 Scout

### Gladiator Blooded

Gladiators with at least one confirmed one-on-one kill, and declared
that they liked it. They are given further mental reinforcement that
they should want to kill Sky Islanders.

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 30 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Light Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Weapon = 20 + (Power Level \* 3.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - 2-Handed Melee Weapon
      - Light Armor
  - Knockback Strike - 3 energy - Melee attack that also knocks back the
    target by 5 feet.
  - Flashy Strike - 4 energy - Melee attack with half Physical Accuracy
    but double damage.
  - Shoulder Check - 4 energy - Melee attack with double Physical
    Accuracy but half damage.
  - Gladiator Backstab - 5 energy - Melee attack that does double damage
    if it hits the back.
  - Plunging Attack - 6 energy - Melee attack that ignores Physical
    Armor. Requires that the target is at least 4 feet below.

### Imperial Scout

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Light Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Light Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Light Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Gear:
      - 2-Handed Ranged Weapon
      - Light Armor
  - Random Element Specialization
  - Ranged Weapon Techs

### Watcher Controller

Watcher Controllers host Imperial Watcher spirits inside of their own
bodies, linking them to Possessed Watchers.

  - Person
  - Maximum Health = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Maximum Energy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
      - Weapon = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Magical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Magic Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Magical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Technique = 20 + (Power Level \* 3.25)
      - Melee = 10 + (Power Level \* 2.75)
      - Ranged = 10 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
      - Magic Armor = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Gear:
      - 2-Handed Magic Weapon
      - Magic Armor
  - Able to use magical techniques as if their physical position had
    originated from a Possessed Watcher
  - Temporary Watcher - 10 Energy - Attaches a watcher to an Imperial
    Person within range. This then allows the Watcher Controller to use
    magical techniques as if their physical position had originated from
    that Imperial Person.
  - Random Element Specialization
  - Elemental Energy Techs

### Possessed Watcher

Ritually murdered in the most psychologically-horrifying way possible,
so that they would be vulnerable to possession by Watcher spirits
crafted by the Empire. Their control bolts are also inscribed with the
parts of the Adtextus that define what Watcher spirits are.

  - Undead
  - Maximum Health = 40 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 15 + (Power Level \* 1.5)
      - Weapon = 15 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
      - Unarmored = 10 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Weapon = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
  - Jumping II
  - Teleport II
  - Gear:
      - 1-Handed Melee Weapon
      - Unarmored

### Starved Bloodhound

  - Animal
  - Maximum Health = 40 + (Power Level \* 4)
  - Maximum Energy = 10 + Power Level
  - Physical Accuracy = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Evasion = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Unarmored = 20 + (Power Level \* 3)
  - Physical Power = 20 + (Power Level \* 2)
      - Barehanded = 20 + (Power Level \* 2.5)
  - Physical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Accuracy = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Evasion = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Power = 10 + Power Level
  - Magical Armor = 10 + Power Level
  - Swiftfoot IV
  - Gear:
      - Barehanded
      - Unarmored
  - Dashing Bite - 3 energy - Move 20 feet, then barehanded attack.
  - Scent Tracking - 3 energy - Adds the Scent Tracked status condition
    to a target within smelling range.
  - Maul - 5 energy - Grapple, then barehanded attack.

## T3 Auxilia

### Auxilia Archer

### Auxilia Swordsman

## T4 Equestrian

### Auxilia Cataphract

### Auxilia War Elephant

### Imperial Equestrian

## T5 Legion

### Pact Dragon

This political party of dragons wants to exterminate whole species
according to the prophecies of their religion. They have made pacts with
various continental powers, including the Empire, binding their lives
and minds together in exchange for special abilities. They have common
ground with the Empire in that they want to kill specific Sky Islands,
including the ones that the Player-Characters live on. Dragon parents in
this political party tend to eat their own children, as the logical
conclusion of their regressive beliefs, although a few have escaped to
become other types of dragons.
